MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_001.txt
M&NABB
SECTION I CHAPTER IT
MEN AB B
Lot Fear Be
Timor.
Far From
Omnis
Abesto
Ail
(an rirean
reann cinnidh)
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_002.txt
Still o'er those scenes the Memory wakes,
And fondly broods with miser care.
TIME but the impression stronger makes
As Streamed their channels deeper wear.
This genealogical information is organized as follows:
CHAPTER I. The DAVIDSON FAMILY
a. William Craig Davidson w. Elizabeth Ann Malin..
b. Walter Craig Davidson w. Doris Louise Buckner
c. Solomon Johnson Davidson w. Viola Craig McNabb.
d. James Isaac Davidson
e.
Francis Marion Davidson
f. Joseph Davidson
g. Andrew Davison/Davidson
W. Lou Ola Smith...
w. Margarett Cynthia Morgan
w. Elizabeth ??? (Brock).
W. Elizabeth ???
To follow the line of relationship from Davidson to McNabb, one goes
from Walter Craig Davidson to his mother, Viola Craig McNabb Davidson,
who was the daughter of Walter Scott & Birtie Sophia McNeill McNabb.
To follow the line of relationship from Davidson to McNeill, one goes
from Walter Craig Davidson to his mother, Viola Craig McNabb Davidson,
thence to her mother, Birtie Sophia McNeill McNabb, wife of Walter
Scott McNabb and daughter of Daniel Sylvester McNeill and his wife,
Sarah E. McFarland McNeill.
To follow the line of relationship from Davidson to Buckner, one goes
from William Craig Davidson to his mother, the wife of Walter Craig
Davidson, Doris Louise Buckner Davidson, a daughter of Eugene Buckner
and his wife, Virginia Ella Weddle Buckner.
CHAPTER II. THE MCNABB FAMILY
a. Walter Scott McNabb
w. Birtie Sophia McNeill.
b. Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb W. Rebecca Ann "Mitty" Turner..
C. James Pinckney McNabb w. Esther Flenniken (DeArmand)
d. Nathaniel Taylor McNabb
e.
David McNabb, Senior
f. Baptiste McNabb, Senior
g. William McNabb, Junior
w. Ellender McCubbins.
w. Elizabeth Taylor....
W. Kathern ???..
W.
w.
h. William McNabb, Senior
i. Various McNabb relatives.
(1) Betty Aiken d.in Monroe Co., Penn.
(2) Martha Bennett m.Augusta Co., VA.
???? Monroe Co., Penn. circa 1700.
CHAPTER III. THE MCNEILL FAMILY
a. Daniel Sylvester McNeill w. Sarah E. McFarland.
b. Hugh McNeill, Senior W. Sophia Boyle..
c. William McNeill
W.
Christy Cameron.....
CHAPTER IV. THE BUCKNER FAMILY & THE WEDDLE FAMILY
a. Eugene Buckner W. Virginia Ella Weddle...
b. Emmett Franklin Buckner W. Susan Cordelia "Delia" Martin..
c. Stephen Morgan "Morg" Buckner w. Louisa Jane Kuykendahl
d. James A. (Agleston) Buckner w. Susannah Roberts.
e. John Buckner of 1810-20 Burke Co., NC w. Patsey Taylor.....
f. John
Buckner W. Mary Brown d. in Orange Co. NC...
g. John Buckner w. Sarah Buckner dau of Major Thomas Buckner..
h. Richard 2 Buckner w. Elizabeth Cooke of royal lineage.
i. John Buckner "THE IMMIGRANT" w. Deborah Ferrers..
j. Thomas Buckner "Thomas of Oxford" W. Alice Page.
k. Hugh Buckner "Hugh of Oxford, Bailiff"
w. ????..
1. William Buckner "William of Cumnor" w. Martha ???.
m. Rychard Buckner of Cumnor & Whitley, Berkshire
CHAPTER V. NATIONAL SOCIETIES
W. ????
a. Complete and successful application of Doris Louise Buckner
Davidson for membership in the National Society Colonial
Dames XVII Century, Nat. No. 30751, Michael Upchurch Chapter.
b. Complete and successful application of Doris Louise Buckner
Davidson for membership in the National Society Daughters of
the American Revolution, Nat. No. 0769513, Llano Uplift Chapter.
This application established John Buckner 4. as a newly designated
Patriot by the NSDAR. Copies of old Family Bibles included herein.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_003.txt
CABLE ADDRESS
"BONAQUI"
THE AMERICANA INSTITUTE
A DIVISION OF THE AMERICANA CORPORATION
2 WEST FORTY-FIFTH STREET
NEW YORK 36, N. Y.
December 13, 1954
Mr. Walter C. Davidson,
5979 S.W. 58th Terrace,
Miami, Florida.
Dear Mr. Davidson:
Replying to your request for information concerning the origin,
history, and tartan of the MacNab Clan of Scotland, I give you the
following material from "Scottish Clans and Their Tartans," by the
Duke of Montrose, published by W. and A. K. Johnston, Ltd., of
Edinburgh and London, page 67.
"Pipe Music: 'The MacNabs' Gathering.'
-
Two
-
the
"The MacNabs are of ecclesiastical origin. They are called in
Gaelic Clann-an-Aba' - Children of the Abbot and are descended
from the abbots of Glendochart. The The clan possessions were sitat-
ed on the side of Loch Tay and stretched along the course of the
Dochart to the head of Strathallan. The MacNabs prospered until the
reign of Alexander III., when they were acknowledged to have been a
powerful and influential family. Unfortunately for themselves they
elected in 1306 to support the Comyn interests, and assisted the
MacDougalls and MacNaughtons to defeat the Bruce at Dalrigh.
years later King Robert reversed the defeat, when he overthrew the
MacDougalls and MacNabs in a fierce battle in the Pass of Brander.
The two clans were not subdued by that disaster, for in 1314 they and
their allies, the Comyns, appeared under the English standard at
Bannockburn. During these wars the lands of the MacNabs were over-
run by their enemies, their houses were destroyed, and their family
papers lost or stolen 3B and after Bannockburn their estates were
forfeited and were granted by the Bruce to his loyal supporters
MacGregors, the Dewars, Menzieses, and certain religious establish-
ments. Thus their family history has no continuity until the time of
Gilbert MacNab, who made his peace with King David II., and obtained
from that monarch a charter for the barony of Bovain, in Glenshart in
1336. Gilbert is usually styled the first chef of the clan. He
died in the reign of Robert II., and was succeeded by his son, Finlay
(II.), who lived in the reigns of Robert II. and Robert III., and
died in the reign of King James I. At this time the MacNabs had a
feud with the MacGregors. The two clans had a savage but drawn encour-
ter near Crianlartch in 1426 and so reduced were they that Duncan
Campbell of Glenprchy, considering himself capable of disposing of
them, obtained the royal consent to punish them. He disposseed the
MacGregors of certain lands; but the MacNabs beat him off and even-
tually they and the MacGregors combined against him. Finlay was
succeeded by his son, Patrick III., and obtained charters for Auchlyne
in 1464 and 1474, who resigned his lands to his son, Finlay, in 1487.
Finlay (IV.) is said to have been a gaelic bard. He obtained a charter
381
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_004.txt
Mr. Walter C. Davidson,
Miami, Florida.
December 13, 1954 - 2
for Auchlyne and Wester Durnish in Glendo chart in 1486. His father
died at Auchlyne in 1488. About that time the MacNabs seem to set
about the recovery of their possessions lost in the wars of the
Bruce. They had some thoubbel with the Dewars and began their long
struggle with the Neishes. In 1502 Finley received from James IV.
a charter of the lands of Euer abd Keiragan. He was succeeded by his
son, Finlay. Finlay (V.) appears as a witness to a charter to
Duncan Campbell of Hlenorchy in 1611. In his time the battle of
Glenboultachan is supposed to have been fought. He died at 'Illa
Rayne and was buried at Kılfın 13th April, 1525.' and his eldest
son, Finlay (VI.) succeeded him. He mortgaged the greater part of his
lands to Colin Campbell of Glenorchy, under a charter dated 24th
November 1552 and confirmed by a charter from Mary, dated 27th June
1553. Finlay (VII.) son of the preceding chief, entered into a
bond of friendship with his kinsman, Lauchlan Mckinnon of Strathardıl
in 1606. This bond is witnessed by' James Macnabb, Robeet Macnabb,
Duncan Dow Macnabb, Archibald Macnabb, Gibble Macnabb, John MacDhel,
and Ewan Mackinnon, with others.' Finlay married Catherine Camp-
bell, daughter of the Laird of Glenorchy, by whom he had twelve aons,
"In 1610 a party of 200 chosen men of the Campbells, MacNabs,
MacDonnells and Camerons defeated a body of Macgregors at Bintach. In
1610 the sons of Macnab stormed the stronghold of the Neishes, and
put all save two to the sword.
"Alan Min, or Smooth John (VIII.), succeeded his father. John
led his clan under the Montrose in 1645, and after the battle of Kil-
syth was commissioned to defend the castle of Kincardine.
"Alexander (IX.), a mere boy, became chief on his father's death.
During his minority the Campbells overran the Macnab possessions and
destroyed their castle of Kilean Han. His mother was Mary, daughter of
Campbell of Glenlyon. Alexander married a sister of Sir Alexander
Menzies of Weem, by whom he had Robert, tenth chief, who married
Anne Campbell, sister to the first Earl of Breadalbane. Robert raised
his clan in 1680, and added Glenorchy in his campaign in Caithness..
His son, John Machab, chief, married Jean, sister to Francis Buchanan
of Arnprior, by whom he had two sons, Francis and Robert, and two
daughters, Elizabeth and Marjory, who survived him. The family of
tne chief fought for the House of Hanover in the '45%; but the clan was
out for the Stewarts under Acharn, Inchewen, and Dundurn. John
Macnab died in 1778, and Francis became the twelfth chief.
somewhat eccentric. On his death at Callander, 25th May 1816, his
nephew, Archibald, son of Dr. Robert Macnab, became thirteenth chief.
Owing to financial difficulties, Archibald was compelled to sell his
estates. In the beginning of the last century many of the clan had
crossed the Atlantic, and in 1831 the chief, with some hundreds of
the clan folk, emigrated to Canada. There he had other difficulties,
and in 1853 returned to Europe. After a visit to Scotland he settled
in France, where he died on 12th August, 1860, aged eighty-three. He
was survived by a widow and but one daughter, out of a family of eight.
His daughter, Sophia Frances, died at Florence in 1894."
The illustration of the MacNab Tartan shows red with narrow
dark green crossbars.
GCW
..
Very truly yours,
He was
Georgia C. Washburn
382
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_005.txt
SEPTS OF CLANN AN ABA.
MacNabs, MacNabbs, Macnabs, MacNairs, Mac-
nairs, M'Nabs, M'Nabbs, M'Nairs, Abbots, Abbotsons,
Abbotts, certain Dewars, Dows, Gows, Baines, Gilfillans,
Macgowans, M'Clagans, M'Intyres, &c.
DESIGNATION OF CHIEF.
Mac an Aba, Oighre, or son and heir of the Abbot,
MacNab, The M'Nab, M'Nab of M'Nab, MacNab of
Bovain.
CADETS.
Aucharn, Dundurn, Innishewen, Strathfillan, Suie,
Newton, Cowie, Jamaica, &c.
FAMILY SEAT.
Anciently Eilean Ran, at the junction of the Dochart
and Loch Tay, modern residence dating from the
time of the Commonwealth, Kinnell.
BANNER.
The Green one common to the Clans of the
Siol Alpin Confederacy.
ARMS.
Sa. on a Chev. Ar. 3 Crescents vert. in base an open
boat in a Sea ppr.
CREST.
A Savage's head affrontee ppr.
27
MOTTO.
"Na bitheadh fiamh oirbh," or "Bitheadh eagal
fada bho gach duine," Dreadnought, Timor Omnis
abesto. Let FEAR BE FAR FROM ALL"
SUAICHEANTAS OR BADGE.
Ruiteag, Roebuck berry (Rubus saxatilis, Stone
bramble).
CATH-GHAIRM OR WARCRY.
PIPE MUSIC.
"Fàilte Mhic an Aba," or Macnab's Salute.
"Co-
thional Chloinn an Aba," The Gathering of the Clan
Macnab. The March of the Clan Macnab. The
Retreat of the Clan Macnab.
j
@
383
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_006.txt
14
Macnab Newsletter
A SHORTER HISTORY OF CLAN MACNAB
'
The name "Macnab (however spelt) is from
the Gaelic "Mbic an Aba" and means "sons (or
children) of the Abbot." Originally there were
lay abbots, and according to tradition the Mac-
nab chiefs were descended from the younger son
of Kenneth McAlpine, King of the Scots, Abbot
of Glendochart and Strathearn, who united the
Scots and the Picts. Macnabs are members of a
larger dan grouping, Siol-an-Alpine Clan Al-
pine, with the MacGregors, MacKinnons,
Grants, Macquarries, and MacAulays.
The early history of Clan Macnab is bound up
with Saint Fillan, the later of two so named. He
was a Scot, the son of Feradach or Feriach, who
succeeded St. Mundus as Abbot of Kilmun,
then moved to Glendochart. The ruins of his
chapel are at Kirkton in Strathfillan; his "pod"
and "stone bed," supposed to cure the insane,
are still there. Other relics of St. Fillan, im-
portant to the Clan, still exist. His pastoral staff,
or crozier, (the Quigrich), which was carried be-
fore the Clan in battle, and his bell are in the
National Museum in Edinburgh. His "healing
stones" are at the Tweed Mill, Dochart Bridge,
Killin. He died on 9 January, 703 A.D.
Macnab country stretched from Tyndrum
west into Argyll, and east down Glendochart to
Killin, where the seat of the Clan was Macnab
Castle on Eilan Ran, an island on the north
bank of the River Lochay. This was at the west-
em end of Loch Tay, a point of great importance
when there were no roads and water was the
quickest means of transport.
The surname "Macnab" was first found in a
document dated 1124 AD in the reign of David
I. Angus Macnab, incensed by the murder of his
brother-in-law, The Red Comyn, by Robert the
Bruce, joined the Red Comyn's son-in-law, Mac-
Dougall of Lorn, and defeated the Bruce at the
Battle of Dalrigh in Strathfillan. The Bruce then
defeated MacDougall and Macnab at the Pass of
Brander, 1308, and Bannockburn, 1314. The
Macnab lands were forfeited, but in 1336, Gil-
best of Bovain received a charter from King Da-
vid II, and is regarded by the Lord Ly on as the
first chief. The Macnabe moved slowly down the
River Dochart. Before Bannockburn, the Chief
probably lived at Innishewan; Gilbert, the first
Chief, lived at Bovain. About 1400 Macnab
lands included Ardchyle, Invermonichele, Bo
vain, and Downich. The eighthChief, Finlay,
who died in 1525 at Eilan Ran and is buried at
Killin, granted lands of Ewer and Leiragan to his
wife, Mariat Campbell, for her lifetime. His eld-
est son was probably killed at Flodden in 1513.
Finlay's second son, John, succeeded him and
died in 1558. He and his wife rest in the burial
enclosure on the Ise of Inchbuie at Killin. Ow-
ing to the death of his son before him, Finlay
was succeeded by his brother, Alexander, whose
extravagances depleted the family fortunes.
Alexander had two sons, Finlay and Patrick
Mor of Acharn. Finlay was the father of
"Smooth John," famous warrior, and Duncan,
by his first wife, Katherine, daughter of Sir
Duncan Campbell of Glenorchy. By a second
wife Alexander had ten more sons; from the eld
est of these, Jahn Roy or Baine, the present
Chief is descended.
Trouble with the Clan Neish produced the
Chief's crest, "a savage's head erased," and the
motto, "Dread nought," or in Latin, Timor Om-
nis Abesto. Smooth John led his brothers in a
raid against the Neishes in reprisal for the latter's
raids, in particular taking a pack train of pro-
visions at Christmas 1612. The brothers carried
a boat through s snow over a 2,000 foot pass from
the head of Loch Tay to the head of Glen Ach-
em, and down the glen to the shore of Loch
Earn. They rowed to the Neishes' lair and de-
spatched them. Back at Eilan Ran Smooth
John answered the lookout's challenge with
"Fear Nought" (in Gaelic). From a sack on his
shoulder he rolled out the heads of some of the
Neishes, including the old Chief. There was
no more trouble from the Neishes.
Smooth John led the fighting men of Mac-
nab in support of the Duke of Montrose in the
Civil War They played a notable part in the vic-
tory of Kilsyth, but John was captured after un-
384A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_007.txt
successfully defending Montrose's own Castle.
Kincardine. He escaped under a sentence of.
death in Edinburgh and led 300 clansmen to
crushing defeat at Worcester on 3 September
1651, John survived the battle but died not long
afterwards, killed by marauding members of the
Commonwealth "a
army.
The castle of Eilan Ran was burnt by the
English in 1654. Smooth John's widow married
Malcolm MacGregor and took the lands of
Ewer in exchange for Kinnell, which became the
seat of the family. Robert, 14th Chief, refused to
rise for the Stuarts in 1715, but many of the
Clan did.
John, 15th Chief, was a major in the English
army and was taken prisoner at Prestonpans on
21 September 1745. Some of the Clan sup-
ported the Rising,, but most felt that after
Worcester they had doneenough for the Stuarts
and had received little thanks for their efforts.
John's brother-in-law Francis Buchanan ac
companied Prince Charlie to the last, and re-
ceived his ruby ring and a sword. The ring was
subsequently presented to the National Museum
in Edinburgh by Miss Sarah Anne Macnab of
Macnab, 18th Chief. The sword went with her
father" Archibald, 17th Chief, to Canada, was
bought by Donald, brother of James William,
the 19th Chief, and is in family hands.
Francis, 16th Chief (1734-1814) is the best
known Macnab because of the famous portrait
of him by Raeburn. He was a man large of body
and of appetites. He lived to the end like an old-
fashioned chief at Kinnell House, and died,
35,000 pounds in debt."
Francis left the Macnab lands to his nephew,
Archibald (17th Chief), but the lands were
hopelessly encumbered and Archibald could do
nothing to save them. Some of the land was sold
off but no buyer could be found for the re-
mainder. In 1823 a writ of foreclosure was is-
sued. Archibald fled to Canada, where he ob-
tained a grant of 81,000 acres in the Ottawa
River Valley. He was followed in 1825 by 500
men, women, and children of the Clan. By
1838 he was unsuccessful in his dream of re-
establishing the family fortune and repurchasing
ancestral lands. He finally left Canada in 1853,
moved about, and died in 1860 at Lanion,
Macnab Newsletter
Cotes du Nord, in France
15
His daughter Sarah Anne (b 1803), main-
in Florence in 1894 extinguished it.
tained the old line as 18th Chief until her death
The succession to the chiefship was left in
doubt after Sarah Anne's death. The Lord Lyon
finally recognized James William Macnabb, of
the Macnabbs of Arthurstone, as 19th Chief. He
was succeeded on his death in 1915 by his son,
the Rev. James Frederick, 20th Chief, for many
years rector of Bolton Abbey, Yorkshire.
James Alexander Macnabb, OBE, ID, 21st
Chief, was educated at Eton and Cambridge. He
was famous in rowing airdes, winning a Bhse at
Cambridge and a Gold Medal at the Paris
Olympic Games. He served in WW II in the
Royal Artillery in West Africa and Burma,
reaching the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
In 1949, Archibald Corrie Macnabb, son of
James Frederick, 20th Chief, bought back Kin-
nell House and 7,000 acres from the Brea-
dalbane Estate. In 1954 James Alexander sur-
rendered his claim to the succession in favor of
his uncle, and Archibald Comie was recognized
by the Lord Ly an as 22nd Chief.
tained it when he sold Kinnell, and recently
conveyed it to Clan Macnab. To that end a Clan
trust has been set up to assure its possession to
the Clan in perpetuity, and as a burial place for
Chiefs and their families.
Cadet (junior) houses of Clan Macnab:
Dundurn The French
: Innishewen
Branch
☑Barravorich Acharn
Branch
The Epping
A Barachastalain Newton Edinample
Septs of Clan Macnab:
Archibald Corrie was born in London in
1886, educated at Eton and Balliol College, Ox-
mostly in the Punjab, from 1911 until 1950. He
ford. He served in the Indian Civil Service,
died in 1970 and is buried in the old Macnab
Burial Ground on the Island of Inchbuie.
James Charles, the present (23rd) Chief, is the
born in 1926, educated at Radley College and at
son of James Alexander, 21st Chief. He was
Ashbury College, Ottawa, Canada. He served in
the RAF and Scots Guards 1944-45. In 1945
be
was commissioned into the
Seaforth Highlanders and served in India, Java,
and Singapore. In 1948 he joined the Colonial
Service and served in the Federation of Malaya
Police Force as Assistant and Deputy Super-
intendant. He retired in 1957 and farmed at
Kinnell until he had to sell it and move
national financial conglomerate, the Hill Sam-
to West Kilmany. He now works with an inter-
uel Group.
The Island of Inchbuie, containing the an-
cient Macnab Burial Ground, is the only re-
maining Clan land in Clan hands. The Chief re-
Further reading
Clan Macnab, Clan Macnab Society, 1977
A Brief Outline of The Story of The Clan Mac-
nab, Archibald Corrie Macnab, CIE, Clan Mac-
nab Society
The Highland Clans, Moncreiffe of that Ilk &
David Hicks, Bramhall House, 1967
•TLACK·OMMIS.
HASESTO
Abbott
Dewar
Abbotson
Gilfillan
Macandeoir.
384 B
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_008.txt
18
Macnab Newsletter
SCOTTISH CREST BADGES
1. 1
The Last Word
Much confusion exists about the meaning,
use and entitlement to wear Scottish crest badg-
es, and it is constantly increased by well-
meaning but ill-iunformed explanations. These
notes are authoritative in setting out the main
facts. Even the popular name "can crest" is a
misnomer, as there is no such thing as a "clan"
crest. The crest is the exclusive personal property
of the clan chief, and it is fully protected to him
by the laws of Scotland. The circumstances in
which it may be worn by his clansmen are set
* out hereafter
ཁྐྲ་
The Crest
When a coat of arms is granted by the Sove-
reign through Her Majesty's Lord Lyon King of
Arms, the grant of arms document shows the
MOTTO
COAT
OF
ARMS
CREST
coat of arms on a shield. Above
the shield is placed a conventional
helmet, and on top of the helmet
is shown an additional device
I called the CREST, accompanied
by the owner's motto on a con-
ventional scroll. It is impossible
to own a crest without first own-
ing a grant of arms, as the crest is
an adjunct to the coat of arms.
Sometimes an additional mot-
to is granted which may correctly
appear on the clansman's bonnet
badge as an alternative to the first
motto,
The Weath
Between the crest and the helmet usually ap-
pears a WREATH of twisted cloth of alternate
twistsof the owner's livery colors, on which the
wreath stands. When the crest is shown by itself
without the coat of arms this wreath is always
shown beneath it to indicate that it is a heraldic
a crest and not merely a depiction of one object or
other. It is usually shown as a "lort" of straight
sausage with six twists.
Rights
Any Soot who has recorded arms and crest in
the Public Register of All Arms and Bearings in
Scotland ("Lyon Register") has the right to wear
his crest as a badge in various particular forms.
No one else at all may wear a badge of the
crest that such an armiger (one legally entitled to
arms) has recorded as his own, and this is a mat-
ter of law
The arms and crest are protected by their
owner by the Laws of Arms in Scotland, and in-
fringement of his sole rights can bring prosecu-
tion, a fine, and confiscation of the
propewit y
marked with the rightful owner's crest. [This is
not the case in England or Wales, ed.] Such pros-
ecution is conducted entirely at the expense of
the Crown, so the owners of arms can invoke it
freely and at no cost to themselves.
In Scotland all arms and crests are personal.
There is no such thing as a "Family coat of arms
or crest." Though the arms or crest may be
borne by successive members of a family they
are personal to each in turn (and must be ma-
triculated by each inheritor]. The rules of in-
heritance of arms and crests are strict.
WEARING AND FORM OF CREST BADG-
ES
Chiefs of clans: Chiefs have the right to wear
their crests as badges either without the ac-
companiment of airdet, motto, or feathers be-
hind the badge, or as is more usual, surrounded
by a plain circlet inscribed with his motto or slo-
OR
MOTTO OF
SLOGAN
gan. He may wear
three eagle feathers in
silver behind the circ
let.
If the chief is also a
peer he may add his
coronet of rank on top
of the circlet.
Chieftains: Heads of
large branches of a
clan, officially rec-
ognized as such by the
Lord Lyon, may wear
either their own per-
sonal crest within a
plain airdet inscribed
with the motto, as for a chief, but with two
3842
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_009.txt
small eagle feathers instead of three. If the chief-
tain is also a peer he
MOTTO
SLOGAN
may add the
I coronet of his rank on top of the
circlet, or he may wear his chief's
crest badge like any other clans-
man.
Armigers: Persons who have reg-
istered their own arms and crest or
hsve inherited them according to
the laws of Scotland from an-
cestors who recorded them in the
Lyon register [and matriculated
them personally with the Lord Lyon]
may wear their own crest as a
badge either on its wreath, crest, coronet or cha-
peau or, more usually, within a plain circlet in-
scribed with his motto. An armiger is entitled to
one eagle feather behind the circlet, and if also a
peer may add his appropriate coronet on top of
the airdet. An armiger may choose instead to
wear the crest badge of his chief.
Clansmen and Clanswomen: i.e.,
the chief's relatives, induding his
immediate family, even his eldest
son, and all members of the ex-
tended family called the "Clan,"
whether bearing the Clan's sur
name or that of one of its septs,
in short all those who profess al-
legiance to that chief and wish to
demonstrate their association
with the clan.
MOTTO
OR
SLOGAN
COOTED
-
It is correct for these to wear
their chief's crest encircled with a
strap and buckle bearing their
chief's motto or slogan. The strap
and buckle is the sign of teh clansman, and he
demonstrates his membership of his chief's dan
by wearing his chief's crest within it.
Although the crest badge is purchased by and
is therefore owned by the clansman, the heraldic
crest and motto on it belong to the chief and
not to the dansman. They are the chief's ex-
dusive heraldic property which the dansman is
only permitted to wear by grace of the chief. It is
illegal for the clansman to appropriate the
chief's crest and motto for any other personal
use, such as decorating his own silver, writing
paper, or signet ring. Legally, clan societies, of
Macnab Newsletter
19
ficials, and clansmen who have reason to use the
crest badge on stationery should add beneath it
the words "cr est badge of a member of the Clan
Mac..." to make it clear that the user is not mis-
appropriating the property of the chief.
It is the badge of all clansmen, whether mem-
bers of clan societies or not, and non-members
may not be excluded as long as they are clans-
men.
From Information leaflet No. 2, Court of the
Lord Lyon
MOTTO OR
LOGA
This familiar rendition of the crest badge is used
by the Clan Macnab Society, UK, the Clan
Macnab Society in California, and was used by
this society at its inception. Director B.G. Mac-
Nabb writes that he has articles with the same
rendition dating back more than fifty years, and
he remembers that the same rendition was used
by his father before him
Since the crest badge is not the property of
the Society but of the Chief of the Can, the ed-
itor, also speaking as chairman of the Board of
Directors, will continue to use the traditional
rendition above.
The editor sees no law or custom which for
bids a different artistic rendition of the crest
badge, as it is the heraldic description "a savage's
head erased" which is the proprietary item. He
would welcome any authoritative information,
preferably with citations, to darify this inter-
esting bit of punctilio.
We believe in artistic freedom and applaud
freehand renditions for the personal use of the
artist. But it comes down to custom, tradition,
taste, and "if it ain't broke...;" we will continue
to use the traditional crest badge.
☐
3840
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_010.txt
Let fear be far from all.
THE
CLAN OF MACNAB
IN the ancient Gaelic genealogy, so often referred to, this clan is deduced from
Ferchar, son of Feredach, and in Gaelic they are called Clan-an-Aba, from their
chief ancestor having been the Abbot of Glendochart, who lived between 1150 and
1180. As his lands were within the glen of that name, they were inherited by his
descendants. "It does not follow that being an Abbot, he was prevented from
marriage or holding property," says Robertson; "the contrary was common in
these remote times.' We doubt this, as St Gregory the Great, 604, was always a
zealous assertor of the celibacy of the clergy (Alban Butler, vol. i.).
The Abbot of Glendochart was a man of such consequence that in the reign of
William the Lion he was joined with the Earl of Athole in having the rule and
management of Argyleshire, at that time when the royal authority could not be
intrusted to any one belonging to that wild and warlike district.
The MacNabs having joined the MacDougals, Lords of Lorn, against Robert I.,
suffered the loss of the greater part of their lands; but they still retained a small
portion, called Bowaine or Bovan. This is probably the place referred to in a
charter by David II. "to Gilbert M'Nabbe, of the lands of Bathmachin, in vicecom. de Perth," page 34 of Robertson's Index.
At Inch Ewen, in Breadalbane, says General Stewart (in 1822), "a family of the name of MacNab had occupied the same farm
for nearly four centuries till within these last few years, when the last occupier resigned (Sketches of the Highlanders, vol. i.).
During the reign of James IV. the MacNabs and the Neishes, in the vicinity of Lochearn, had been at bitter feud.
Robertson's Index there is a charter to Murthaci MacNieache of the lands of Crossard, Perthshire, in the time of Robert I., thus
showing that the tribe was an old one. Skirmishes between the clans had been frequent, and at length a regularly pitched battle
was fought between them on the confines of a glen north of the foot of Lochearn. In this both tribes mustered to a man, disdaining
to ask for quarter, receiving none, and all fighting for vengeance. Victory declared for the MacNabs; only a remnant of the Neishes
escaped; and their chief fell, covered with wounds, after many of the MacNabs had been slain by his sword. A large stone
marks the place where he fell, and on this, the credulous say, the stains of his blood are still visible.
In
On an island in Lochearn the remnant of the Neishes took shelter; their head was an old man, a near kinsman of the late
chief, and they lived by plunder. In the time of James V. the chief of the MacNabs, who lived in Kennil House, sent a gillie
to Crieff for provisions at Christmas time; but on his return he was waylaid and robbed by the Neishes. MacNab of that Ilk,
whose eldest son John was ironically known as Ian mian Mac an Aba, or "Smooth John MacNab," had twelve sons, all men of
great strength. These young men were gloomily meditating revenge in the evening, when their father entered and said,
"Bhe'n oidch an oidch, n'an bu ghillean na ghillean" (The night is the night, if the lads were the lads). The dark hint was taken;
each belted on his arms, and led by their brother John, they carried a boat on their shoulders from Loch Tay to Lochearn, on
which they launched it, and rowed over to the island.
In the House of the Neishes all was dark and silent. Smooth John dashed open the door with his foot; and rushing in, the
twelve brothers put every man therein to the sword save one and a бoy, and cutting off their heads, returned with all the
plunder they could collect to Kennil House. There Smooth John held up the head of the chieftain of the Neishes, exclaiming,
"Na biohd fromgh, oirbh!" (Be in fear of nothing); and old MacNab, while contemplating the bloody heads with extreme
complacency, said, "The night was the night, and the lads were the lads!" (Antiquities of Strathearn, Perth, 1836, etc. etc.)
In 1578 caution in 500 merks was found by Colin Campbell of Airdbaith, for "Allestar Barrayth Maknab, son of Állestar
M'Nab (sic), that he will appear upon the 3rd day of the nixt justice aire of the Sherefdome of Perth, to underly the law for all
crymes that may be imput to him" (Privy Council Register).
"
When Montrose was in arms for the King in 1645, among the clans who joined him at Fordoun in 1645, Menteith in his
History of the Troubles" mentions "the clans of Mackgregor and Macknab, with a good number of the Farquharsons of the shire
of Mar." In 1646 John MacNab of that Ilk, with his clan (according to the Douglas Baronage), with Lord Napier and Drummond
of Balloch, garrisoned Montrose's patrimonial Castle of Kincardine for the King. On this Major-General Sir John Middleton
drew off a body of infantry and cavalry with a battering train from Stirling, and bent the guns on the castle from the opposite
side of the glen. For fourteen days the MacNabs defended the fortalice, till the concussion of their firearms caused the water
in the well to subside, on which they all made a sally forth on the night of the 14th March, and cutting their way through
Middleton's guards, escaped to join Montrose (Guthry's Memoirs). John MacNab of that Ilk, though leading 300 of his clan,
was taken and sent to Edinburgh; but escaped to die on the field of Worcester (Scottish Baronage).
In 1654 the Laird of Glenorchy was empowered by General Monk to make up certain losses be had sustained out of the
chief of MacNab's estates, "and to assist in putting the haill Maknabs out of the country," dated Dalkeith, 21st November.
On the 18th of the same month there was another letter written by Monk to Glenorchy, "desiring him to forbeare to trouble the
widowe of the deceased Laird of M'Nab, as she has paid sesse and lived peaceably since her husband's death." And this
protection was also given to Archibald MacNab of Agharm (Transact. Soc. Antiq. Scot. vol. vii.).
In 1783 Francis MacNab of MacNab and that Ilk presented to the Antiquarian Society of Scotland a curious Highland.
purse-clasp with a pair of pistols secreted in it, so any stranger attempting to open it would receive the shot through his hands.
This purse-clasp suggested to Sir Walter Scott the apparatus for guarding the purse of Rob Roy, when he says to Bailie Jarvie,
'I advise no man to attempt opening this sporran till he has my secret."
. The last descendants of the ancient chiefs are now settled in Canada.
The old burial-place of this tribe is at Killin, immediately below the bridge that spans the Dochart, on a picturesque island
Covered with fine sward and shaded by pine trees, amid which are what seem the remains of an ancient chapel; but, save one,"
no stone or memorial is there. It is a little marble slab built into the wall, to the memory of a son of MacNab of that Ilk,
Francis Maximus MacNab, Lieutenant of the Gordon Highlanders, killed at Almeida in 1811.
me must have volunteered for special service.
As his regiment was not there,
384
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_011.txt
OMNIS
MACNAB ARMS
"LET FEAR BE FAR FROM ALL"
468
SCOTTISH BORE BRIEVES.
hill, and connecting the French secretary with St. Cuth-
bert About the same period, a similar document was
prepared in favour of Don Joseph Cantelinus, Duke of
Popoli, in which his descent was deduced "from the line
of our royal predecessors, Kings and Queens of Scotland,
by a continued course of pedigree for about 330 years
before the incarnation of our blessed Saviour." Some
forty years previously (1648), the notorious Robert Men-
teith, "ex-minister of Duddingstone, Jesuit, Public Secre-
tary, Canon of Paris, historian, etc.," obtained a bore-brief
from Scotland, certifying his descent from the baronial
house of Menteith, whose arms he boldly assumed;
whereas, in point of fact, his father was an unknown
Edinburgh burgess, who had netted salmon on the banks.
of the Forth, from which circumstance the "ex-minister"
had humorously and unsuspectedly introduced himself
to Cardinal Richelieu as one of the Menteiths of
Sulmonet! Mr. Riddell refers to an early instance of
a bore-brief, in the year 1510, which seems to have been
of a much more trustworthy character than those of a
later period. On that occasion Francis Forrester, alias
Pitlard, Herald to his most Christian Majesty, appeared
before the Daily Council (then the supreme civil court),
and stated that, although born in France, he was of
The Duke's pedigree, however,
is entirely eclipsed, in point of anti-
quity, by that of the Laird of Mac-
nab, who repudiated the idea of
being sprung from one of the sons of
Noah. On being asked how he con-
trived to get over the "little diffi-
culty" of the flood, the dignified
Highlander coolly replied that his
ancestor had a coble o' his ain")
and to this day the family of Macnab,
like the Watermen of London, carry
an open boat in the base of their
escutcheon.
*
*
385
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_012.txt
212
Macnab
Macnab means 'Son of the Abbot', and the Macnab chiefs were the
descendants and heirs of the Celtic hereditary Abbots of Glendochart,
themselves the coarbs or heirs of St. Fillan mac Feradach, who was a prince
of the Dalriadic royal house of Lorn and died in 703. He founded his
principal abbey in Glendochart, the upper part of the glen becoming known
as Strathfillan. It was the Celtic custom for abbots to be chosen from the
Founder's Kin, and the old Gaelic MS. genealogies trace the mediaeval
Macnab chiefs through some twenty generations from Saint Fillan's
brother, Ferchar mac Feradach.
In the thirteenth century, the Abbot of Glenochart still ranked with the
Earls of Atholl and Menteith, and after the discontinuance of the Celtic
abbacies the Macnab chiefs retained the barony of Bovain in Glendochart.
But in 1828 an old prophecy was fulfilled, that when a great storm blew
a branch of a pine tree against the trunk of another, and grafted itself on
to the trunk, the Macnabs would lose their lands': and the old clan lands
were sold up for debt. However, the offending pine branch has died since
the present snowy-bearded chief bought back the last 7,000 acres of the
clan country, and returned to live in the home of his forefathers as The
Macnab.
The Macnab, 22nd Chief, C.I.E., with his
wife Alice, daughter of Dame Flora MacLeod
of MacLeod. The Macnab was Financial
Commissioner of the Punjab in the Indian
Civil Service, and his wife was awarded the
Kaisar-i-Hind silver and gold medals. His
elder brother, the 21st Chief, resigned the
Chiefship to him when he recovered the old
Macnab lands from the Campbells. His heir
is his nephew, James Macnab of Macnab, yr.
(son of the 21st Chief), who is married to Lord
Kilmany's daughter and lives nearby, also
in, the ancient Macnab country.
386
FAR
OMNIS
FROM
ABESTO
LET FEAR BE
TIMOR
Sir Allan MacNab, 1st Baronet, Prime
Minister of Canada, who became heir male of
the Macnabs on the death of the 17th Chief in
1860, but left an only daughter Sophia
MacNab, Countess of Albemarle. On William
Lyon Mackenzie's rebellion against what he
called the Family Compact', in Canada in
1837, MacNab turned out with his militia
battalion-known by the rebels as "the Men
of Gore" defeated the rebels at Mont-
gomery's tavern, cleared the neighbouring
districts, and cut adrift the schooner Caroline,
to a body of American "s
", who had taken possession of
a little above Niagara, and sent her in
flames over the falls.' (Mackenzie, who also
called his innocent sovereign Victoria
Guelph, the bloody queen of England', later
died of softening of the brain.) The Iron Duke
of Wellington declared that it was his con-
viction that owing to the loyalty, zeal and
active intelligence of Sir Allan MacNab the
Canadas had been preserved to the British
Crown'.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_013.txt
ՐՈ
The bronze crozier-head added in the Dark
Ages to encase the wooden pastoral staff of
St. Fillan (died 703). This bronze head was
itself later in turn encased in a silver head
during the Middle Ages.
to
The Bell of St. Fillan, known as the Bearnan
or Little Capped One'. As late as 1488, it
was carried in the sacred pageant at King
James IV's Coronation. It was in the heredi-
tary custody of a Dewar whose toft is referred
to in 1640 as Dewar-Vernan's Croft', at
Suie in Glendochart. The relics of the
Founder Saint were the essential insignia of a
Celtic abbacy, and were sometimes given in
hereditary custody with a toft of land
younger branches of the abbatial family. Such
hereditary custodians were styled dewars',
which often became their surname. In Glen-
dochart there were five separate hereditary.
Dewars,
each with a separate relic of St. Fillan
(the pastoral staff, the bell, the arm-bone, the
meser' and the fearg '): they were presum-
ably cadets of the hereditary.
Abbots of Glendo-
chart, whose principal heirs were the Macnabs
of Macnab. Fearg means 'Wrath', and it is
uncertain what relic acquired this bye-name.
Its hereditary Dewars had their toft at Dewar-
na-fargs-croft, which is referred to as late as
1632, and was at Auchlyne in Glendochart,
where the ruins of their Caibel-na-Fairge or
Chapel of the Fearg can still be seen. It has
been suggested that the 'meser' was a meise
or portable altar, but it seems more likely
that it was the saint's missal, miraculously
written by night. In 1468 a MacGregor
certified to the Bailie of Glendochart that he
held the tack of the lands of Corehynan from
the Deore of the Meser'. The saint's arm-
bone was known as the Main, and his toft at
Killin is referred to in 1640 as 'Dewar-na-
Mans-croft and in 1670 as. Dewar-na-
Maynes-croft'. King Robert Bruce prayed
in the Priory of Strathfillan while a fugitive,
and attributed his escape from the Mac-
Dougalls to the saint's intervention. Accord-
ingly, the silver shrine of the saint's arm-bone
was brought to spend the night in the king's
tent on the eve of Bannockburn, and was
borne to the battlefield by the Abbot of
Inchaffray himself. This enshrined arm-hone
must have been an especially interesting relic,
as we are told that once upon a time, when
the saint was in his cell after sundown, a lay
brother was sent to call him to supper. The
messenger, curious to know what St. Fillan
was doing, looked through a chink in the wall,
and was astonished to see him writing by
means of a light that streamed from his left
arm. Next day a tame crane that was kept by
the holy fraternity picked out the eye of the
lay brother who was guilty of prying upon
the saint, and rendered him quite blind. but
at the request of the rest the brethren St.
Fillan restored his sight to the erring one'.
In 1549, the Privy Council protected "Malise
Doir of Quickrich' (Malise Dewar of Coig-
reach, the saint's pastoral staff) Archibald
Doir of Fargy' and 'Malcolm Doir of
Bernane (Bearnan was the saint's bell) from
having to hand over their sacred relics to the
Prior of Strathfillan. St. Fillan's bell and
pastoral staff are now in the National Museum
of Antiquities of Scotland, in Edinburgh. The
most important family of Dewars today is that
of which the millionaire peer Evelyn Dewar,
3rd Lord Forteviot, is the head. Coming from
the Perthshire highlands, they are most
probably sprung from one of the five hereditary
Dewars of St. Fillan, and so ultimately akin
to the Macnabs, the Sons of the Abbot of
Glendochart.
The elaborate silver crozier-head added to
encase St. Fillan's pastoral staff, probably
the fourteenth century. In 1336, the Menzies
chief, as then overlord of Glendochart, con-
firmed Donald McSobrell, dewar Cogerach,
in the lands of Ewich in Strathfillan. The
saint's staff was known the Coigreach or
Stranger', because it was so often carried
by its hereditary Dewar to far places: for if
any inhabitant of the parish of Glendochart
should have goods or cattle carried off from
him and be unable to follow them, whether
from doubt of the culprit, or feud of his
enemies, then he might send a messenger to
the Dewar of the Coygerach, with fourpence,
or a pair of shoes, and food for the first night,
and the said Dewar should follow the goods,
or cattle, wherever they might be found within
the bounds of the Kingdom of Scotland'. The
inquest that reported this to the Bailie of
Glendochart in 1428 declared that 'the office
of bearing the said relic was given to a certain
progenitor of Finlai Jore' (i.e. Finlay Dewar)
the present hereditary bearer, by the coarb
of St. Fillan (i.e. an ancient Celtic hereditary
Abbot of Glendochart); and that in return
for his services, the Dewar was due certain
specified quantities of meal from each
inhabitant of the parish. In 1487 the then
bearer of the Quegrich', Malise Doire (i.e.
Dewar) was confirmed in possession by King
James III. After a later 'Malise Doir of
Quickrich' in 1549 got the Privy Council to
prevent the Prior of Strathfillan from forcing
him to surrender his hereditary charge, the
certain
annoyance of the Church at being defeated
in its action against the Dewars may account
for the fact that in the following year the
Crown authorities stepped in and imposed
à charges upon the lands which Malise
Dewar of the Quigrich and his ancestors had
always held free As a result, in 1575, the
next Dewar of the Coigreach was obliged to
sell all his lands of Eyicht, Cryt-in-dewar in
Auchincarne and the half merkland called
Cragwokin, to Campbell of Glenorchy. In
the reign of Charles II, the then Dewar was
so poor that he had to sell the Coigreach itself
to MacDonell of Glengarry, who venerated
the relic as a Catholic. But the Dewars
I never rested until they regained possession
of the Quigrich, and brought it back, from
Lochaber to Breadalbane'. In 1782 its then
bearer, Malise Dewar, was a day labourer
living in Sraid Glas (Grey Street) at Killin.
As late as 1795, Presbyterian highlanders were
wont to come over a hundred miles to Killin
to procure water that had been passed through
the interior of the crozier'. The succession
of the family in the nineteenth century is set
out in the Rev. William Gillies' invaluable
In Famed Breadalbane (Perth 1938). In 1818
Archibald Dewar of the Coigreach emigrated
to Canada, taking the relic with him; and
Highlanders settled in Canada used to come
to him to get water in which it had been
dipped to cure their sick cattle. But in 1876,
Alexander Dewar of the Coigreach (with the
consent of his own son) was induced to transfer
the saint's pastoral staff to the Society of
Antiquities of Scotland, on trust to deposit
the same in the National Museum of Antiqui-
ties at Edinburgh, there to remain in all time
to come for the use, benefit, and enjoyment of
the Scottish Nation'. However, the present
representative of the Dewars or Keepers of
St. Fillan's crozier, Robert St. Fillan Dewar,
bears as heraldic insignia two such pastoral
staves in saltire behind his arms.
387
213
13
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_014.txt
The Neish Island' in Loch Earn, where the
Macnabs massacred the MacNeishes in 1612.
The MacNeishes had, been defeated near
Comrie at Boltachan and a few survivors had
withdrawn to this artificial island, whence
they continued raiding the Macnabs. The
Macnab chief's eldest son, 'Smooth John'
or Iain Min Macnab, fiar of Bovain, with
three of his brothers, carried a boat from Loch
Tay overland some eight miles over the hills
and down Glen Tarken, and launched it at
nightfall on Loch Earn. The next day the
brothers returned to The Macnab's castle
on Eilean Ran on the river Lochay, and
brought their mother a sack from which they
emptied out the gory heads of their victims'.
(In 1965, The Black Watch territorials
successfully carried a boat all the way from
Loch Tay to Loch Earn over the same hills as
an energetic military exercise, in memory of
this historic operation). Eilean Ran Castle
214
was burnt by the Cromwellian English
invaders, after Íain Min Macnab, now himself
the Laird of Macnab, had been killed in an
attack on their occupying forces in Bread-
albane in 1653. The English commander in
Scotland reported that: 'the Lord MacKnab,
one of the great Montrossians, with his whole
clan, did rise upon our partie; and coming to
them, after some little parley (we having got
some of their cattel together) they offered our
partie free quarter, if they would lay downe
arms and return in peace. But our men, not
willing to be so affronted, stood upon their
defence; which the Highlanders perceiving,
sent
flight of arrows and a volley of shot
among them; and ours letting fly again at
them, killed MacKnab, the great chieftain of
that wicked clan, with four more, and fell
upon them and routed them all.'
Kinnell House, home of The Macnab. After
Eilean Ran Castle was burnt by the Round-
head English in 1654, the Macnab chiefs.
moved to Kinnell nearby. The walls of the
older part of the building are from three to
five feet thick. When an official came to
serve a writ on Francis, 16th Chief, the laird
went into hiding while the stranger was
lavishly entertained overnight. Meanwhile
a dummy was hanged on an elm-tree near the
house. When the official I woke with a
splitting headache and bleary eyes the next
morning and asked what was the grisly sight,
she told him 'Oh that's just a wee bit baillie
body that angered the Laird': whereupon the
bailiff fled without daring to serve the writ.'
The next chief, Archibald, took over so
burdened an inheritance that he was soon in
danger of being arrested for debt. So one
morning in 1823, he went out for a walk with
his gun and a of dogs, as usual; and
then just disap He never returned to
Kinnell. But his creditors tracked him in
Scotland and thence to London; and he had
to flee to Canada. The estates had to be so...
to the main creditor, the 4th Earl of Bread-
albane. and remained in Campbell hands until
1949, when Kinnell was recovered by another
Archibald Macnab of Macnab, the present
22nd Chief. (See also p. 14.)
In the greenhouse on the left of the picture
grows the famous Black Hamburgh vine. At
one time it was 192 feet long and considered
to be the largest vine in the world. Though
its branches at both ends have been cut back,
it still produces 600 bunches of grapes a year.
388
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_015.txt
L. Tulla
Barravorich
BEN DOURAN
BEN LAWERS
R. Strae
GLEN ORCHY
R. Orchy
A85
Dal
Righ
A82
TYNDRUM
St. Fillan's Priory
+
R. Lochy
Dewar
Quigrich's
A82
Croft
DALMALLY
BEN LUI
CRIANLARICH
Barr a Chaistealain
A82
GLEN LOCHAY
R. Lochay
Auchlyne
Inneshowan
Auchesson
L. lubhai GLEN DOCHART
Dochart
A85 R. Dochart Luib-
BEN MORE
STOB BINNEIN
Inverlochlaraig
Finlarig Castle
Ellean Ran
A827
L. Tay
KILLING
Bovaln
Acharn
Ardchyle
Meser's
Croft
Dewar
Fergy's
Croft
Dewar
Bernane's
Croft
Braes of Balquhidder
Kinnell House
Dewar
LIX TOLL
GLEN OGLE
A85
L. Earn
Miles
L. Voil
A84
PeRtHSHIRE Scotland L. Lubnaig
INNIS BUIE
MCNABB
IAIN MACNAB OF BARACHASTLAIN
CLAN BURIAL GROUND-INCHBUIE
The Island of Inchbuie is reached through an iron gate where the middle of the
Dochart Bridge rests on the western tip of the Island. Opposite, to the west is the
picturesque island of Garbh-Innis round which the waters of the Dochart come
dashing down in a series of small cascades. The gate opens on to steps near which
are two stone pillars like those leading to Kinnell House. The old accounts speak of
two immense dragons crouched on the top of these. Possibly these were the lions
now on top of the last pair of pillars leading to Kinnell House. Beyond the pillars
is a stone wall with three open arches. The island slopes steeply on all sides to
the river which has cut a deep cleft through the rocky strata. It is divided into three
sections by, firstly, an earthen ridge, and secondly, about 150 yards further on, an
ancient stone wall. The whole island is about 350 yards long, and is covered with
Scots pines, larches, beeches and sycamores. In the middle, lay an old iron fireplace,
reputed to have come from Kinnell House. It has since disappeared. Beyond the
stone wall lies the burial ground with a square stone enclosure, open to the sky and
guarded by a massive iron gate.
389
Strathyre
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_016.txt
18
in the series of battles which culminated in the total
defeat of the Caithness men at Altimarloch, three
miles from the town of Wick.
During the time of this Chief a robber on his way
home from a creach in Strathearn was met at the south
end of the Bridge of Dochart by Macnab who refused
to allow him to pass through the Macnab Lands. The
robber drew his sword and so furious was his attack
that Macnab was obliged to give way before him; but
Donald Mandach Macnab in the Sliochd of Kinnell
taking his chief's place forced the robber to surrender
his sword and give up his booty. The creach thus
recovered was restored to the plundered victims in
Strathearn.
Among the Government documents of 1678 is
a "list of the names of the Heads and branches
of families that are to come to Inverlochy and
give bond to the Commissioners of Council betwixt
and on the twenty day of November next," and first on
the list is Archibald MacNab of Aucharn; 3rd on the
list is Finlay M'Nab of Innis Ewen, and 4th last on
the list is James M'Nab in the Kirkton, of Strathfillan.
It was probably about that time that a robber who
lurked among the rocks at the head of Glenogle and
preyed upon unwary travellers was met and slain by
a member of the Clan.
In 1714 (March 13-22) James MacNab was pro-
secuted for the slaughter of one MacHomish by the
sword.
During the brief Campaign of the "Fifteen" the
Earl of Breadalbane and his brother-in-law Macnab of
Macnab remained at home, but their respective clans
are reported to have been "out" for the House of
Stewart. At that time the Jacobites had a large
19
permanent Camp in Strathfillan; and in 1719 a body
of Highlanders from that Camp marched north to
Glenshiel where they joined a party of Spanish troops
and fought against the Government forces under
General Whightman. The Highlanders claimed to
I have beaten the Government forces; but shortly after-
wards the Spaniards, disheartened by their wild
surroundings, were glad to surrender.
In 1724 General Wade moved through the Highlands
making his roads and collecting the arms of the Clans.
Next year he called upon the Macnabs to surrender
their arms, but in this instance he had to content him-
self with a refusal.
Throughout the troubles of the "Forty-five" the
Chief and his own immediate family were staunch
supporters of the Government. John Macnab his
eldest son fought as a Captain of the 42nd Regiment
at Prestonpans where he was taken prisoner by the
Jacobites and committed to Doune Castle for safe
keeping.
The Clan at large under Alexander Macnab of
Innishewen, Archibald Macnab of Acharn and Alan
Macnab of Dundurn fought for the Stewarts. Donald
MacNab, Brae Leing (sic), is the only Macnab whose
name is given in the "Lists of Rebels" supplied to the
Government by the Supervisors of Excise.
He was
That
a younger brother of Macnab of Innishewen.
other Macnabs were not named in the "Lists" is due
to the fact that in those days Glendochart was beyond
the reach of the Law and Excise. By this time 1745 Win
was
m
здонош
living
Augusta Co, Virginia
390
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_017.txt
SBAND'S
When Bom
Christened
NAME
WALTER SCOTT MCNABB
December 1(5) 1875
Where
Desdemona, Eastland Cty Texas
When Died _ September 4, 1936
When Burled September 6, 1936
When Married December 15, 1896
OLMININO (if any)
Number (1) (?) Mc."
His Father Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
'E'S MAIDEN
:
when Bora
Christened
When Died
When Buried
44 that. (I any)
mones (1) (2) 016..
NAMI
Where
Where Amarillo, Potter Cty Texas
DATA OBTAINED FROM:
McNabb family Bible contains Marriage Certificate,
with Walter Scott Turner, Walter Scott McNabb's uncle, Sam Craig and other
witnesses at the ceremony. Family birth certificates and Census entries:
Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb age 31, 1880 Stephens Cty Texas Census, Justice
Prec 6, page 13, ED 204, shows Walter S. (Scott McNabb) son, age 6, on
_Where Old Hansford Cemetery, Hansford Cty Texas line 43, under his father on line 41.//Walter Scott McNabb age 25, 1900
Caddo, Stephens Cty Texas
Where
m. 10 OCT 1872
His Mother's Malden Name Rebecca Ann Turner
was Grand Mation and a member for 61 years of
Birtie Sophia McNeill the Order of the Castern Star.
'May 6, 18.79.
November 23, 1969
November 24, 1969
Her Father Daniel Sylvester McNeill
mala
M
CHILDREN
(Ang in order of birth)
1 Warren Gilbert
FX 2 Viola Craig
.
Where Palo Pinto Cty, Texas..
Where
Stephens Cty Texas Census, Justice Prec 6, page 6, ED 141, line 92 and
Birtie S., wife age 20; Warren G., son, age 2; Viola C. daughter, age 3/12
Walter Scott McNabbage 35, 1910 Hansford Cty Texas Census, Justice Prec 1
ED 128, Page 310, and Birtie S., wife, age 29; Warren G., son, age 12;
Viola Craig, daughter, age 10. Walter Scott McNabb is shown as Hansford:
County and District Court Clerk.
Daniel Sylvester McNeill age 35, 1880 Palo Pinto Cty Texas Census, page 9
ED 155, line 17, and Sarah E. age 33, wife; Leonides age 6, son; Rose Ella
age 4, daughter; and Birtie age 1/12, daughter. In 1905 Daniel S. McNeill
was elected Justice of the Peace in Palo
Pinto Cty Texas.
Date
Where Spearman, Hansford Cty, Texas
Where Old Hansford Cemetery, Hansford Cty Texas Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON.
m. Sept 1869 to
Her fother's Maiden Name Sarah E. McFarland
WHEN UCAN
[109
Year
WHERE BORN
Two Placo
Curly
State of
Caniry
WHEN DIED
D.,
22 Jan 1898
i 12 Feb 1900
Greer Sty
Ioni Creek hmstd
Stephens Cty
Okla
Texas
M3ILD
Address 1309 EAST -BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Your
Married
Albuquerque NMDate May 18, 1930 Clayton, N. Mex.
4 Sept 1975. To Ruth Prutsman
Date June 14,1917-Dalhart, Tex
To Solomon Johnson Davidson
Date
То
Date.
Parents of
391
7
°
10
11
1. To
Date
То
Date
То
Date
То
Date
То
Date
Το
Date
To
Date
To
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_018.txt
Mormon Church Records; Canada Census & United States Census data re McNeill Family
William McNeill and his wife Christy Cameron, Christened their son, Hugh McNeill, on 25 December
1805 on the Isle of Tiree (Tyree), Argyll, Scotland. Mormon Church Archives, Salt Lake City%; Oct.
1981, British Isles, Scotland, page 800,002; Batch 7102110%; Serial Sheet 20.
Hugh McNeill arrived in E. Simonds Parish, Saint John County, New Brunswick, Canada in 1825. On
8 August 1837, he married Sophia Boyle, born 1817 in Scotland or Ireland, who had arrived in Canada
in 1836. The 1851 Saint John County, New Brunswick, Canada Census Vol II (L-Z) Saint John Regional
Library R 312.9715 v. 2-c. 1 shows McNeill p. 33 Simonds, as follows: Hugh, age 48; Sophia, wife, 34;
Margaret, D, 13; Jane, D, 11; Mary Ann, D, 10; Hugh, S, 8; Daniel (Sylvester) S, 6; Sophia, D, 4;
Sarah, D, 2; Ann, D, 7m. (Daniel Sylvester McNeill was born April 21, 1845 and died March 29, 1929 in
Palo Pinto Cty., Texas.) //Daniel Sylvester McNeill 1880 Palo Pinto Cty Texas Census, Vol. 26,
ED 155 Sheet (page) 9, Line 17, Justice Prec 1, age 33, born New Brunswick, and Sarah E. (McFarland)
wife, age 33, born Missouri; Leonidas (Lee) son, age 6, born Texas; Rose Ella, daughter, age 4,
born Texas; Anne Maude, daughter, age 2, born Texas; Birtie (Sophia) daughter, age 1/12, born Texas.
(Daniel & Sarah E. McFarland were married in Warrensburg, Missouri 5 Sept 1869)//Daniel Sylvester
McNeill 53, 1900 Palo Pinto Cty. Texas Census, Justice Prec 7, Vol. 87, ED-119, Sheet (page) 17,
line 45, and Mary J. 46, wife born Arkansas; Robert, son, age 17, born Texas in 1883 (was Sarah E.'s
child. Sarah died December 6, 1885--Daniel re-married in 1887) Eula, daughter, age 11, born Texas;
Elma, dau., age 8, born Texas; Sylvester, son, age 7, born Texas (Both Daniel S. & Sarah E. are
buried in Brad Cementery in Palo Pinto Cty., Texas)//Daniel Sylvester McNeill age 63, 1910 Palo
Pinto Cty. Texas Census, Justice Prec 7, ED-192, Sheet (page) 176, & Mary J. wife, age 58; Moore,
Ennis, son-in-law, age 26; Moore, Elma E. age 19, daughter, (married Ennis C. Moore when she
14. They were helping Daniel S. on the farm--later, after 1910, they moved to Glendale, Arizona.)
1850 Census, Johnson County, Missouri, page 41, Family #23 587, ALEXANDER MCFARLAN (D), age 45,
born in Tenn.; Margaret, age 46, his wife, born in Virginia; son William R., age 7, born in
Missouri; Sarah E., age 3, daughter, born in Missouri (Sarah E. married Daniel Sylvester
McNeill on September 5, 1869); John Y., age 16, son, born in Missouri. Family living in or
near Warrensburg, where Sarah E. and Daniel S. married.
was
392
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_019.txt
Walter Scott McNabb was born 1 Dec. 1875 or 5 Dec. 1874, the
records vary, in Desdemonia, Eastland County, Texas. He died Sept.
4, 1936 in an automobile accident near Hereford, Texas. Walter
Scott graduated from Eastland Academy, now Hardin Simmons
University in Abilene, Texas. In 1895-96 he worked for his uncle,
Walter Scott's mother's older sister's husband, George. Yoakum in
Greer County, Oklahoma. Walter Scott returned to Caddo, Palo
Pinto County, Texas to marry Birtie Sophia McNeill, born 1879 in
Palo Pinto County. Mother Mc as she later was called, died Nov.
23, 1969 in Spearman, Hansford County, Texas. She and her husband,
Walter Scott McNabb, are buried in Old Hansford Cemetery, near
the Palo Duro Creek in Hansford County, Texas.
After their marriage Dec. 15, 1896, Walter & Birtie went to
Greer County, Okla. where Walter continued to work for George
Yoakum and also filed on land in his own name. It was on this land
on Jan. 22 1898 that Warren Gilbert McNabb was born. He died in
Albuquerque, New Mexico Sept 4, 1975. Warren was a overseas combat
veteran of WWI. Returning to Hansford, Texas after occupation
duty in Germany, Warren married Ruth Prutsman of Spearman, Hansford
County County, Texas on May 18, 1930 in Clayton, New Mexico. They
had two children Beverly Nan born 9 January 1932, and Warren
Neil born 7 January 1934, both born in Spearman, Hansford Cty.,
Texas.
Sometime during the period 1898-1900, Walter Scott filed
on or purchased land in Hansford County, Texas. However, the
family did not move to Hansford Cty. until a few months after
the birth of their daughter Viola Craig McNabb, born Feb. 12,
1900, on the family farm in Stephens County, Texas.
Walter Scott McNabb was County and District Court Clerk in
Hansford Cty., Texas from 1906-1912. In 1917 he organized and
was President of the First State Bank, Hansford County, Texas
later moved 7 miles to Spearman, Texas when the railroad came
through Hansford County circa 1920. He sold his controlling
interest in the Bank in 1928 and continued in the Real Estate
business, The McNABB Land Co., that he had established in 1902
in Hansford County.
Birtie Sophia (McNeil1) McNabb had 2 brothers and 2 sisters.
Sister Rose Ella married a Ramsey and was the mother of Ralph
sons. Sister Anne Maude
Ramsey of Ranger, Texas, who had two
married a Jones. Brother Robert McNeill married Emma Elizabeth
Littlepage and had four children James Robert; Golda, who married
a Rumfield%;B Opal Laverne who married 1st M. Foreman and 2nd
Tom Spears and had a daughter by each one; and Jack who married
Jessie Hughes.
393
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_020.txt
"
BIRTIE SOPHIA (MCNEILL) MCNABB--May 1880 to November 1969
mother 개드
Grandmother
of
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
A pioneer lady.
394
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_021.txt
WALTER SCOTT MCNABB--December 1875 to September 1936
32nd Degree Scottish Rite Mason--Hansford County, Texas
Grandfather of
WALTER CRAIC DAVIDSON
Who, with mother Mc, typified those couples
that
Come hell, high water & the Indians,
were successful in
"cavileging"
Texas,
395
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_022.txt
COUNTY
JO.
TLAND
CLERK
OX 110
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF EASTLAND
I, Joann Johnson, County Clerk of Eastland County, Texas, do hereby
certify that the following information appears in the Index to Births
L to Z of Eastland County, Texas:
Name:
Sex:
Race:
Date of Birth:
Name of Father:
Walter Scott McNabb
M
W
Dec. 1, 1875
N. A. McNabb
Name of Mother:
R. A. McNabb
Given under my hand and seal of office, this the 26th day of May, A.D.
1988.
Jam Johnson
Joann Johnson, County Clerk
Eastland County, Texas.
77711
N.A.
R. A.
-
-
NATHANIEL ARMSTRONG MENABB
REBECCA ANN (TURNER) MO NABB
396
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_023.txt
SELF-PRONOUNCING EDITION
IN WHICH ALL THE PROPER NAMES ARE DIVIDED, ACCENTED, AND MARKED WITH THE VOWEL SOUNDS,
SHOWING HOW THEY SHOULD BE PRONOUNCED.
THE
HOLY BIBLE
CONTAINING THE
OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS,
TRANSLATED OUT OF
The Original Tongues,
AND WITH
THE FORMER TRANSLATIONS DILIGENTLY COMPARED AND REVISED;
TOGETHER
WITH MARGINAL REFERENCES.
THE TEXT CONFORMABLE TO THE OXFORD AND THE AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY'S STANDARD EDITIONS
HOL
THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD
TRADE MARK
397
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF LLANO
I hereby certify this to be a true and correct copy of the TITLE PAGE of
the MCNABB FAMILY BIBLE.
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
Notary Public State of Texas
My Commission Expires March 11, 1993
Du L. David
"Notary Public in and for the State of Texas
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
My Commission Expires March 13, 1992
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_024.txt
THE NAMES AND ORDER
OF ALL THB
BOOKS OF THE OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS
WITH THE NUMBER OF THEIR CHAPTERS
THE BOOKS OF THE OLD TESTAMENT
12
GENESIS hath chapters.
EXODUS
LEVITICUS
50 II..CHRONICI.ES
40
EZRA
36 DANIEL
14
10
HOSEA
NUMBERS
DEUTERONOMY
JOSHUA
JUDGES
RUTH.
I. SAMUEL
27 NEHEMIAH
36 ESTHER
34 JOB
3
13 JOEL
10 AMOS
42
OBADIAH
1
4.
24
PSALMS.
150 JONAH
7
21 PROVERBS
31
МІСАН
3
ECCLESIASTES
12
NAHUM
3
31
THE SONG OF SOLOMON
8
HABAKKUK
3
II. SAMUEL.
24
ISAIAH
66 ZEPHANIAH
I. KINGS.
22 JEREMIAH
52 HAGGAI
2
II. KINGS
25
LAMENTATIONS
5 ZECHARIAH
14
I. CHRONICLES
29 EZEKIEL
48
MALACHI
THE BOOKS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT
MATTHEW hath chapters
28 EPHESIANS.
6
TO THE HEBREWS
13
MARK
16 PHILIPPIANS
4 THE EPISTLE OF JAMES
5
LUKE
24
COLOSSIANS
4
I. PETER
5
3
JOHN
21
I. THESSALONIANS
5 II. PETER
THE ACTS
28
II. THESSALONIANS
3
I. JOHN
5
THE EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS
16
I. TIMOTHY.
6
II. JOHN.
1. CORINTHIANS
16
II. TIMOTHY
III. JOHN
1
11. CORINTHIANS
13
TITUS.
3 JUDE
22
GALATIANS
6
PHILEMON
1
REVELATION
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1892, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF LLANO
I hereby certify this to be a true and correct copy of the Table of
Contents page with the year of publication, of the MCNABB FAMILY BIBLE.
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
Notary Public State of Texas
My Commission Expires March 13, 1902
Doris L. Davidson
Notary Public in and for the State of Texas
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
My Commission Expires March 13, 1992
398
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_025.txt
со
WHAT THEREFORE GOD HATH JOINED TOGETHER LET NOT MAN PUT ASUNDER.
THIS IS TO CERTIFY
That Walter Scot McNabb
and Birt Sophia McNeill
WERE UNITED BY ME IN THE BONDS OF
HOLY MATRIMONY
At Caddo, Texas;
December
_on
the fifteenth day of
in the year of our Lord 1826
in Presence of turner, Sam Craig and other
Signed by a I Love, JP, no six
In Stephenes County Texas
THEREFORE SHALL A MAN LEAVE HIS FATHER AND HIS MOTHER, AND
SHALL CLEAVE UNTO HIS WIFE, AND THEY SHALL BE ONE FLESH.
SEN. 11 24
#3¢ Q* # 2 ¢ # ས ་ཎྞདྷཱནཾ
Jammu Jam Jammin ammum (autifiri, turidicono mi tamiinin lamTHE
THE STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF LLANO
I hereby certify this to be a true and correct copy of the MARRIAGE
CERTIFICATE as found in the MCNABB FAMILY BIBLE, denoting the marriage.
of Walter Scot McNabb and Birtie Sophia McNeill.
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
Notary Public State of Texas
My Commission Expires March 13, 1998
Daris L. Davidson
Notary Public in and for the State of Texas
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
My Commission Expires March 13, 1992
399
好禮
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_026.txt
ARRIAGES
BALHART, TEXAS
AMARillo, Tas
"Viola Craig McNabb to Solomon Johnson DAVIDSON-JENE 14, 1917
"Doris Louise BucKNER to WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON. MARCh 1, 1945
Wm, CRAIG DAVIDSON to MARY Louise Anderson,
4,
Montrose, cel.
7-9-1965
William CRAIG DAVIDSON TO (2) ELIZABETH MALIN 2 OCT 1980
5 Tara Louise Davidson to Stevan Hazel 21 May 1994 at Avery House
Dazebo, 328 West Mountain Ave, FT Collins, Colorado
SHTHI
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF LLANO
I hereby certify this to be a true and correct copy of the page denoting
Marriages in the McNABB FAMILY BIBLE.
Doris L. Davidson
Notary Public in and for the State of Texas
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
My Commission Expires March 13, 1992
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
Notary Public State of Texas
My Commission Expires March 13, 1992
400
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_027.txt
BIRTHS
MUNTER-BL
Warren Gilbert McNabi, Jan. 22 1898.
In Grus. Co. Oklahoma
2. Viola Craig McNabb born Feb 12, 1900.
In Stephenes Co. Texas
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON-MARCh 7. 1920 Hutchinson, KANEAS
WALTER
CRAIG DAVIDSON WAS BORN IN
BORN IN THE CATHOLICTHOSPITALA
Son of Walter C. + Doris L. Dat
Northwest Texas Hospisat
William CRAIL DAVIDSON September 1, 1947 Amarillo, TEXAS.
"May 9, 1966 Edson, Alberta CANADA
3.
Tyler Craig
+
3. TARA Louise DAVIDSON June 22, 1973,
•Doughter of Wm Cragt Mary Lowes Dr
6.
Daughter of Tara Lovisa & staven Hozel
7t, Collins, Colorado
At Collins
DARIENNE TAYLER Nicole HAZEL, 18 MAY 1995, Colorado
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF LLANO
I hereby certify this to be a true and correct copy of the page denoting
BIRTHS in the McNABB FAMILY BIBLE.
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
Notary Public State of Texas
My Commission Expires March 13, 1993
Deria L. Davidson
Notary Public in and for the State of Texas
DORIS L. DAVIDSON
My Commission Expires March 13, 1992
401
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_028.txt
:
SER འ
DEATHS
MEMORY
WALTER SCOTT ME NAbb
September 4, 1936. Amacillo, Texas
Birtie Sophia McNabb ( <NEILL) Nov. 23, 1969 Spearman, It
Solomon Johnson DAVIDSON Dec 21, 1975 ONTARIO, Calif
WARREN GILBERT MENABB September 4, 1975 New MEXICO
Buried OID HANSFORD Com. HANSFORD Cty
2
2.
Mar. W. J Whitson)
ALBUQUERQUE,
J. ON her 96th birthday
2 Viola CRAIG MENABB DAVIDSON, d. 7:45 AM 12 726 1996, mind Old Hansford Com.
FATHER OF WALTER SCOTT MENABB
BORN-Apr 2, 1848-CARTER Cty. TENN
NATHANIEL ARMSTRONG MENABB DIED-MAR 26, 1906 STEPHENS Cty, Texas
1 Mother of WALTER SCOTT MENARB
BORN DEC 24, 1857-FANNIN Cty, TEXAS
REBECCA ANN ME NABB DIED JAN, 29, 1942 - STEPHENS (Ty. Texas
(TURNER)
402
283738
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_029.txt
NAME
POSTOFFICE
STREET No.
R. F. D. No.
STATE.
E190
PUT A
2-CENT
STAMP
HERE
SEARS, ROEBUCK AND CO.
CHICAGO, ILL.
POSTAL CARD-ONE CENT.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
THIS SIDE IS FOR THE ADDRESS ONLY.
8P
18.
TE
Urs & Me sall
Cauda
403A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_030.txt
1710
THIS: CERTIFICATE
DEEMABLE I
G.CO
JAQUE
CHICK
ACCORDING TO AGREE
THIS CERTIFICATE Existes
913
SIL
ON REVERSE SIDE
JAQUAH NFO.
SERIES
3000 M
ROING TO MELMENT ON EVERSE SIDE
LOSE WARN.
-Town WHAT IS CLARK DOEING
PRETY SCOT L KG TO LIVE IN
YOU LUCE IN TO START To School
YOU DO I WOU DO LIKE TO SEE
HELLO GESSIE HOW DO
MISS ST. CLAIR
Every Child wants the
SHAKER SALT
DOLL BOOK
Send us ten cents and your
name and address and we will
mail it to you.
It has charming verses
describing the Shaker Dell's
travels to the Royal Table Lands
of the World
Eight beautiful colored pic-
Jures illustrating the Shaker
Dell's reception by the moa-
archs of Eutope and Asia.
bet
colored
and Queen Dells
in gorgeous couri costumes
with changes of robes in which
the child can drew them
The doll pages can be re-
moved from the book without
injuring it, and the dolle played
with separately.
There are ten pages of in-
teresting verses and articles
on Child e le foreign countries
that will be instructive alike
to Mether and Child.
Write to us at once for this
delightfel and educational chil
dren's book I will solve the
problem of keeping your chil
dren entertained.
THE EMPRESS ONE MET
IN RUSSIA,
THE DIAMOND CRYSTAL SALT Co., ST. CLAIR. MICH.
• Card from Warren G. McNabb
age 5, Hansford Co. Texas 1963/4.
403B
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_031.txt
ADAMS COUPONS ARE VALUABLE
Any premium on the back of this
coupon for the spelled word.
A-D-A-M-S-or for 50 coupons any
letter.
TRY OUR
"YUM YUM" TEA
IT IS DELICIOUS
If you do not want any premium on the.
back of this coupon, we have a large as
sortment of Vases, Fancy Dishes, Pitchers,
Etc., which we give for these coupons.
Write us or call at our office to see these
premiums.
CHAS. H. ADAMS CO., Ltd.,
NEW ORLEANS.
DON'T THROW THIS AWAY.
Save these LETTERS; they are valuable to you
When you got enough to spoll tus name
Each packs
Peacock Flavori
Tea in package
- Get the wor
cost, any premi
coupon.
We guarant
any should not
upon return of sanic.
10. E..
fofur
ne Star Bag Blue,
ces and Wong HI
e coupons.
send you free of
other side of this
presented; and if
ney and coupons
Address: CHAS. HI. ADAMS CO., Ltd.,
542 Tchoupltoulas St.. New Oricans. La.
THIS COUPON NOT GOOD AFTER JANUARY 1912.
MCNABB & TARKINGTON
Abstracter's
JUN
30
HANSFORD, -
TEXAS
7 AN
الدلتا
ADAMS' COUPONS ARE VALUABLE.
Any premium on the back of this
coupon for the spelled word
letter.
A-D-A-M-S or for 50 coupons any
TRY OUR
"YUM YUM" TEA
IT IS DELICIOUS
If you do not want any premium on the
bark of this coupon, we have a large as
sortment of Vases, Fancy Dishes, Pitchers,
Etc., which we give for these coupons.
premiums.
Write us or call at our office to see these
CHAS. H. ADAMS CO., Ltd.,
NEW ORLEANS.
DON'T THROW THIS AWAY.
Save these LETTERS; they are valuable to you
When you get enough to spell the name
Each package of
Peacock Flavoring
Tea in packages, 001
Get the word "AL
cost, any premium
coupon.
We guarantee all
any should not be a
upon return of same.
Luck
Peaco
One
ne Star Bag Clue,
ices and Wong Hi
se coupons.
and v
bed or
il send you free of
other side of this
presented, and if
money and coupons
Address: CHAS. IL ADAMS CO., Ltd.,
542 Tehonpitoulas St.. New Orleans. La.
THIS COUPON NOT GOOD AFTER JANUARY 1912.
TREX
Mer. Clark M & Nabb
Caddo,
Texas
Stephens Co.
4030
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_032.txt
to
lend)
days. The Little children
here have orgnized a club
call the Herry Okorkers
Club He are going to givea
box supper to get money
the grave ajard
I have you
had a rain down
the this summer que had
a little rain here I vesday:
night it did they crop a little
good I think. Tell unclegless
Hello for me. Ore have
new docter in town living!
next door to us. Ansiver soon
With Love To all.
نوا
a
Your Granddaughter
Viola Mcchable
Hansfordles
June 29,1911.
Mrs. R. A. Mc Nabb,
Dear Grandma's
I suppose you think dam
never goingter Papa has
answer your
kind letter.
bought
one a new piano
I am taking music
lesson from Misschatty
Lackey certainly enjoy
raking lessons. One have
very nicegarden the
summer of ouis ajour
garden? What does Unde
Jesse do these long hot
a
Can you just imagine the difficulty
the
East to Old Hansford in the heart
the Great Plains, by wagon.
of getting a new piano from
to
403 D
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_033.txt
dau-Viola Craig McNabb
w. Birtie Sophia McNabb (McNeill)
son-Warren Gilbert McNabb
hus-Walter Scott McNabb
McNabb Family, Hansford Cty, Texas & Guymon, Okla., circa 1917
My Mother
Perhaps its just
that is
t
say
not know just
"
Uncle
My
my Grond parents -
az
well that during one's youth,
" one's immsterity "
one really does
Low well off one is.
What was so
wonderful about them & family
members? Very simple – They individually and
collectively, paid
a
deal of
great
attention that was
It was
constant + 99% of
it was
attention to me.
consistent, it was
the time it was
dependable. Only in my
gentle, and
51 years of marriso
to Wors have I felt anything with which it compares,
403
P.S. That is how I tried to raise
on
son,
Aye,
Welt l..
Davidson.
Did I succeed? (Quien Sale?
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_034.txt
CA, 1925
Dear Sir:
MCNABB LAND COMPANY
W. S. MCNABB, MANAGER
FIRST NATIONAL BANK BUILDING
P. O. BOX 1231
Amarillo, Texas
We understand that you are the owner of the following
described tract of land situated in Deaf Smith County, Texas:
W. S. McNABB
We have buyers for land in this county. We have been in the
land business in the Panhandle of Texas for more than twenty years,
bringing in people from the East, and we are in a position to give
you efficient service in the sale of this land if it is on the market.
We would be glad to have your price on terms of $5.00 per acre
cash, the balance to be divided in eight to ten equal annual payments,
or, such other terms as you may desire to make, or your lowest cash
price, if you prefer to sell for cash, allowing us five per cent
commission for making the sale.
If you wish to list the land with us, please fill out
and sign the enclosed listing blank and mail to us in the enclosed
envelop.
We give you as reference, the First National Bank, Amarillo,
Texas, for whom we have recently sold out a block of land.
If this land is listed with us, we will give it our personal
attention to the end that we may make a quick sale for you.
Thanking you for an early answer, we are,
WSM-b
Very truly yours,
McNabb Land Company,
By
WHEAT FARMS WORTH THE MONEY
Walter Scott McNabb was in the real estate business, throughout the
Southwest, from 1902 until his death in an automobile accident, in
the vicinity of Hereford, Texas, in 1936. He also brought in several
oil wells near Brackenridge, Texas. He helped to establish several
towns in the Texas and Oklahoma Panhandle by bringing in train-cars
full of purchasers, from not only the Eastern United States but from
Canada as well. At these sales, entire townships would be sold, lot by
lot, at auction for cash or letter of credit.
404
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_035.txt
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF HANSFORD
WILL
VGL
21 PAGE 55
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
That I, Birtie McNabb, of Hansford County, Texas, being of
sound and disposing mind and memory, and above the age of 21 years,
do make and publish this My Last Will and Testament, hereby revoking
any and all wills by me at any time heretofore made.
FIRST. I direct that all of my lawful debts shall be paid as
soon after my death as reasonably possible.
SECOND. I give, devise and bequeath all of my property of
every kind and description, real, personal, or mixed, wherever sit-
uated to my son, Warren McNabb, and my daughter, Viola Whitson, share
and share alike.
THIRD. Should either my son or daughter pre-decease me and
leave children, then the share of my property as would go to him or
her if living, as the case may be, shall go to the children of the
one so dying share and share alike. Should either my son or daughter
pre-decease me and leave no children, then the share of my property
as would go to him or her if living, as the case may be, shall go to
the survivor of them, but if there be no survivor, then all of my
property shall go to my grandchildren share and share alike.
FOURTH. I appoint my daughter, Viola Whitson, executrix of
my will and direct that no bond or other security shall be taken or
required of her as such executrix and that no other action shall be
had in the Probate Court in relation to the settlement of my estate
than the probating and recording of my will and the return into court
of an inventory, appraisement and list of claims of my estate.
FIFTH. I give to my executrix the express right, power and
authority to sell so much of my property as may be necessary to pay
my debts for such price as to her shall be deemed best. I direct that
my personal property shall be sold first for such purpose.
SIXTH. I give to my executrix the express right, power and
authority to lease any and all of my land and minerals which I may
own for oil, gas, and other mineral purposes for such price and upon
405
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_036.txt
21 PAGE 56
such terms and conditions as to her may seem best, giving and grant-
ing to her the express right, power and authority to execute and
deliver any and all oil, gas and other mineral leases and other in-
struments as may be required or necessary in the leasing thereof.
SEVENTH. Should my daughter, Vibla Whitson, elect not to serve
as my executrix, pre-decease me, die before qualifying hereunder or
while acting as my executrix, or for any reason be unable to act, then
P. A. Lyon shall be executor in her place. He shall have the same
rights, duties, power and authority as if he had been originally named
as executor in this will in place of my said daughter.
No bond or
other security shall be taken or required of him and no other action
shall be had in the Probate Court in relation to the settlement of my
estate than the probating and recording of my will and the return into
court of an inventory, appraisement and list of claims of my estate.
This I make and publish as my last will and testament, hereunto
signing and subscribing my name this the 5th day of August, 1955, in
the presence of the undersigned, who attest the same at my request.
Bit McNabb
Testatrix
The above instrument was now here published as her last will and
testament and signed and subscribed by Birtie McNabb, the Testatrix,
in our presence, and we at her request, in her presence, and in the
presence of each other, sign and subscribe our names thereto as
attesting witnesses.
I using
Buckley
Truman,
I hereby Certify this To
Be a True Copy of Original
Amelia C. Johnson
Clerk County Court, Hansford
By:
County, Texas
Kim V. VERA
Deputy
406
7,74
Dec 15, 1969
V.121 & 55-56
'
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_037.txt
When Born
Where
Christened
Where
When Died Circa 1857-1860
Where
When Burled
Where
When Married circa 1850-51
Where
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (2) c.
His Father
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
When Born
Christened.
When Died
When Buried
Other Husb. (if any)
Nun.ber (1) (2) etc..
Her Father
Male
Onnin County Texas
His Mother's Maiden Name
Where
Where
ica Arc. 1857-June 1860 Where.
CHILDREN
or
Fernale (Arrange in order of birth)
M1
William
M2 Walter Scott
F = Mary Alice
Where
Virginia
(William SR.) Turner
(Husband's Full Name)
(Wife's Maiden Name)
This information obtained from
1860 Census. Fannin Co. Texas
Marriage Book B. 1865-1875
Fannin County Texas..
1900 Census Wilbarger Co., Jet.
1900 Census Stephens Co., 204.
1910 Census Stephens Co., 204.
Fannin County, Qilxas Date 20 July 1985.
Her Mother's Maiden Name
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
1852
27 Sept. 1853
4 Sept. 1855
HONEY GROVE,
"
4
F • Rebecca Ann "Mitty" 24 Dec. 1857 FANNIN Co.
State or
Country
Virginie
Compiler Landa Willcot Kern
Address 9737 Wisterwood Dr.
State 7X 75238
City Dallas
WHEN DIED
Month
Day
Year
Yug. 20 Feb. 1909
Virg. 11 Mar. 1918
Married
Date never married
To died as
adult
2) Date 18 October 1888
young.
TOM#2) Ida Grayson Row
Date 20 January 1871
To George William Yoakum
Date 7 October 18724
Texas 29 Jan. 1942 To Nathaniel a. mc nabb
Main Street, Logan, Utah
burial date 15 known on children and not death date, write
burial date, prefix (Bur). Use reverse side for additional info.
Family Group Sheet, Form F3
9
10
11
12
6
5
Date
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
Το
Date
Το
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_038.txt
HUSBAND'S
NAME NATHANIEL ARMSTRONG MCNABB **
When Born
April 2, 1848
Christened
When Died
March 26, 1900
March 27, 1900
When Burled
When Married October10, 1872
Other Wives (if any)
Number(1) (2) alc.
His Father James Pinckney McNabb
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
Rebecca Ann Turner
December 24, 1857
January 29, 1942
When Bor
Christened.
When Died
When Buried January 31, 1942
Other Husb. (Ion)
Humber (1) (2) BLC.
Her Father William Turner, Sr. b. in VA.
Tale
2
CHILDREN
fernale (Arrange in order of birth)
Where
Carter Cty, Tennessee
Where
Where Ioni Creek, Stephens Cty, Texas
Macedonia Cemetery, Stephens Cty, Texas
Where FANNIN
Cty, Texas Lic # 2133
Where
His Mother's Malden Name Easter FLANAGAN
(Nickname "Mitty")
Where Honey Grove, Fannin Cty, Texas
Where
Where
Ioni Creek, Stephens Cty, Texas
Where Macedonia Cemetery, Stephens Cty, Texas
Her Mother's Maiden Name
(5) Dec
11 Jan. 1875
Desdemona
Eastland Cty
???
WHEN DIED
Day
Munch
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Family Records, Cemetery Records, Census data follo
James Pinckney McNabb age 36 & family, Bradley Cty Tenn. Census, 26th Sul
*Division East Tenn., line 42 page 343, line 7 page 344 shows son Nathanie
-Armstrong age 2, with older brothers and sisters. Alfred W. McNabb, broth
of James Pinckney, follows on line 11 page 344, of 1850 Bradley Cty Census
James Pinckney McNabb age 43(46) 1860, Fannin Cty Texas Census, Bonham Po
page 260 reverse, line 38, shows (Nathaniel) Armstrong age 11, son,& fami
Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb age 31, 1880 Stephens Cty Texas Census, Justic
-Prec 6, ED 204, p. 509B, shows Walter (Scott McNabb)age 6, son, on line 43
_under his father N.A. McNabb on line 41. p.509B.
Joseph P. Spence family raised Rebecca Ann Turner. 1860 Fannin Cty Texas
Census, Honey Grove Postoffice, page 240 shows Spence on line 34, line 39
shows Rebecca Ann age 2, with her sister and two brothers.
Joseph P. Spence on line 11, page 287, 1870 Fannin Cty Texas Census, Honey
Grove PO, line 17, page 287 shows Rebecca Ann age 12, with her sister Mary
Date
Alice age 14, and her two brothers, William Jr.
17, and Walter Scott Turner age 16.
1910 Stephen, Cty, Texas Consu
ED 249 page 9 shows mrs, N.A,
(Rebecca Ann) m<NABB.
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Married
Date Dec 15, 1896-Caddo, Texas//Walter Scott & Birtie Sophia buried in
To Birtie Sophia McNeill Old Hansford Cem. Hansford Cty Texas
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE DORN
Town of Place
County
State or
Country
4
TEXAS
Amarillo, TX
Sept 4,1936
1880
To
"
Date George buried in
Macedonia Cemetery
Date 1899
11 James P. II buried in Quanah, Texas
June 18,1967 To Augusta Fancher b. Jan 7, 1883-d. July 1 1938//son Herman 4Dec1906
1935
Date 1919
M
1 Walter Scott
2
M
2 George R. (Se W. 10-1-1880)
1877
"
Stephens Cty
3
M 13 James Pinckney II(Jomer I. Jul 15, 1863) 18. June 1880
"
万
(22)
F
4 Myrtle E.
2 June 1893(2)
"
"
To
5
M
5 Jessie, Franklin
18 June 1886
"
Date
"
1970
To
4 M
6 Lee
"
July 1883
Date
То
6 F
"
Ada
7
13 July 1889
".
Date
Jul 17,1903
To
8
M
Clark
30
May
1896
"
Date
"
9 M
Monti
1897
"
"
Charles Adams
Jessie buried in
Macedonia Cemetery
(marrial Laura Moule Jennings & Jesuie
Rayford me nail was their con.
407
То Myrtle Smith
//Clark & Myrtle buried in Evergreen Cemetery in
1906
Date Monti buried in
To..
Macedonia Cemetery.
Date
To
Date
Date
To
Date
Ranger, Eastland Cty Texas.
1900 Stephons So. Census
p LED 14! line 95
Rebeca A McNabb with 5
children at home_
10
** Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb's father, James Pinckney McNabb is shown with
his siblings Nathaniel T.; Alford (Alfred W.); Armstrong; Mrs Lorina (McNabb)
Stanley; and Fode on page 677, top, right column paragraph, with father shown as
Nathan McNabb (Nathaniel Taylor McNabb) in: Paddock, Capt. B.B. (ed.) A 20th
12 Century History and Biographical Record of North and West Texas Vol. 2,
Lewis Publishing Co., 1906: Chicago
13
To
To
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_039.txt
Brief Overview of McNabb Family Lineage
William McNabb's son,
Baptist McNabb's son,
David McNabb's son,
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb's son,
James Pinckney McNabb's son,
Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb and Rebecca Anne (Turner) McNabb
had 7 boys and 2 girls. All but Walter Scott, the oldest, were
born on the family farm in the Las Casas Community area of Stephens
County, Texas, on Ioni Creek. Sons were: Walter, George who died
at the age of 3 years, James, Lee, Jess, Clark & Monti who died at
the age of 8, in 1906. Daughters were: Ada who died at 16 years
of age in 1903, and Myrtle who married Charles Adams. Myrtle died
in Borger, Texas in 1936. Her daughter, age 15, moved to Ranger,
Texas, where many McNabb relatives lived. The mother of Rebecca
Anne Turner died shortly after the family reached Fannin County,
Texas in their move from Virginia in 1856-57. After the death of
his wife, Mr. Turner started to return to the East to get either
a sister or some other woman to come to Texas to care for the 4
children, whom he left with the Spence family in Fannin County,
Texas. Mr. Turner was scalped by the Indians near Weatherford,
Texas and the Spence family raised the Turner children.
Rebecca Anne b. 24 Dec. 1857 d. 29 Jan. 1942 was born in the
Honey Grove area of Fannin County, Texas. She had 2 older brothers,
William who died as a young adult, and Walter Scott Turner b. 27
Sept. 1853 d. 20 Feb. 1909, lived in Olustee, Okla. (near Altus).
Rebecca Anne had one older sister Mary Alice b. 4 Sept. 1855 d. 11
March 1918. All of the children except Rebecca Anne were born in
Virginia but no one now knows where in Virginia. Mary Alice married.
George William Yoakum on 20 Jan. 1871, and lived in Woodard, Okla.
They had a son Everett M. Yoakum who in 1989 lived in Dallas, Texas
with his wife. Rebecca Anne and her husband Nathaniel Armstrong
McNabb are buried in the Macedonia Cemetery in the Las Casas
Community near the old home place on Ioni Creek in Stephens County,
Texas.
The community of Las Casas as shown above, somewhere along the
line, began to spell the name as though it were Spanish, which
it is NOT. The correct spelling and the original spelling is
LASCASSAS--Lascassas.
408
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_040.txt
REBECCA ANN "MITTY" (TURNER) MCNABB--and--NATHANIEL ARMSTRONG MCNABB--Married Oct 1872
December 1857 to January 1942
April 1848 to March 1900.
Married in Fannin County, Texas--Lived in Eastland and Palo Pinto Counties, Texas
Palo Pinto Co. Tx
Buried in Macedonia Cemetery in
Las
Joni
Cassar Community
north
of Ranger, Tx, mar
CREEK,
Parents of
WALTER Scott MENABB-
you
This lady cooked using a fireplace and:
the
have not really eaten genuine fronther food,
have tried her hot biscuits covered
until you
n
bee tree on
with honey, from the honey
farm, which she had gathered herself.
409
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_041.txt
2133
Marriage Bicense
BETWEEN
A McKnobb
AND
Rebeca A Tumer
14
Issued 7th day of Oct 1872
Charlie Dif
Clank.
District Cl
Rieorcua
OLITAM TO AUTIX.
+10
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_042.txt
THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
COUNTY OF FANNIN.
To any Judge of the Pistrict Court, Justice of the Peace, or regularly
Licensed or Ordained Minister of the Hospel--Greeting:
You are hereby authorized to solemnize the Roites of Matrimony between
Forhaul A Miknobb and Rebecca A Tummer
and make due return of this License to my office within sixty days, certified
according to law.
Given under my hand and seal, of office, at Bonham, this, the
"day of Septembre 1872
Chains Dif
Clerk District Court, Fantin County.
3. Dll. Sinus
a
Minter of the Sespon
hereby certify that I solemnized the RITES OF MATRIMONY between
NA MCK,mble and Rebecca A Jun
on the
10
day of OCT
1872
Clack misspelled MCNABB and wrote September
instead
October-
g
410
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_043.txt
JAMES PINCKNEY II
REBECCA ANN
MYRTLE E.
WALTER SCOTT
JESSIE FRANKLIN
CLARK
Family of NATHANIEL ARMSTRONG MCNABB, circa 1908, LEE is not in picture and Nathaniel
A., the husband of Rebecca Ann and father of the children, passed away in March 1900.
411
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_044.txt
Rebecca Ann TURNER'S Family.
m
Ed Je
Rebecca Ann Turner married
Nathaniel Armstrong Mc Hall, parents
of
Walter Scott mc
Dabt.
412
Mary
Alien + Давосем Ани
Turner - braTheR WALTER-SCOTT & FARMILY
TURNER.
412
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_045.txt
Rebecca Ann Torner
<
Nathaniel.
maniel
Turner
Armstrong McNabb parent
J
Walter Scott McNabl
When Born
Rebecca ANN TURNER'S Family
Where
Christened
Where
When Died
When Burled
Circa 1857-1860
Where
Where
When Married circa. 1850-54
Where
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (2) c.
His Father
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
---
When Born
Christened.
Annin County Texas
His Mother's Maiden Name
Where
Where
When Died lica Acc. 1857-June 1860 Where
When Burled
Other ilusb. (if any)
Number (1) (2) etc.
Her Father
Male
Dr
CHILDREN
Fernale (Arrange in order of birth)
M. William
M Walter Scott
F = Mary Alice
Where
Eirginia
(William SR.)
(Husband's Full Name)
(Wife's Malden Name)
This information obtained from
1860 Census. Fannin Co. Texas
Marriage Book B. 1865-1875
Tannin County Texas..
1900 Census Wilbarge Co., Tel.
1900 Census Stephens Co., 204.
1910 Census Stephens Co., 24.
Fannin County, Texas Date 20 July 1985.
Her Mother's Maiden Name
WHEN BORN
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
Day
1852
27 Sept. 1853
4 Sept. 1855
HONEY GROVE,
F • Rebecca Ann "Mitty" 24 Dec. 1857 FANNIN Co.
4
State or
Country
Virginia
WHEN DIED
Monik
Day
Compiler Landa Willcoy Kern
Address 9737 Wisterwood Dr.
State 7X 75238
City Dallas
Year
Yug. 20 Feb. 1909
Virg. 11 Mar. 1918
Married
Date never married
To died as young adult
P Date 18 October 1888
TOM #2) Ida Grayson Row
Date 20 January 1871
To George William Yoakum
Date 7 October 1872
Texas 29 Jan. 1942 To Nathaniel a. mc nabb
arth Main Street, Logan, Utah
ren and not death date, write
werse side for additional infe
7
5
Date
То
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
413
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_046.txt
Probably window
TENN. NATHANIEL TAYLOR McHabb, 6.5 Feb. 1783
page 14 CARTER County.
DAVID McNabb and Nathanial's mother, Elizabeth (TAYLOR) MENABB, 6. 1760
воло
7
Consus page 182, Dist. 5 CARTER County, Tann. NATHANTEL TAYLER McHall, d. after 1840 in Bradley
James Pinckney
Consus page 53, EASTERN DIST., BRADLEY CTY., Tenn. JAMES PINCKNEY MCNABB, 6. Feb. 9, 1814
were Cherokee Indian girls.
Savinia Dearmond (1850 Census) & brother in
husband of
John A. Dearmond (I), probably
McNabb who married EASTER FLANAGAN, SAViNia's Sister, Both
William H. DEARMEND(I) probably brother of John A. Dearmond.
Tenn. 1830
Line 8
1
1830 Census
Line 12
Tenn 1840
1840
Line
Tenn 1840
Line
Tenn 1840
Line
८
5
1840
To 1840
Line 7
Ten 1850
Line
I 2nd page
(EASTER) Ether
Line 42 (lat poze) 1850 Census pages 3+3 + 3+4 Bradley Co. Enstern Dist. Tenn., James Princkney
Albert H.
Matheu
Датка
Theadore
Mary
36
MCNABB
m
32
F
12
m
3-(d.㎡18.5
m
➢ À ➢ ༥
m
7
4
"
F
2 m
Nathaniel (Armstrong)..
(McCubbins)
Ten 1850
-Line 19 (2nd page) Ellendermabl
66 F
(all)
James P. ma nabb's mother
Notomist Taylor McNally window)
1860
Line 33
.
1860 Consens paze 260 revers Fannin City, Bonkom Post office James Finckney McMil
(EASTER) Esther
Gomes
(Theochore) Washington
Mary
43(46)
41
19
M. "
"
17
E.
" it
"I
10
(Nathaniel) ARMSTRONG
Page!
Washington Township, Sand Springs Pool Ifice
"Женый 1870
Line to
1870 Census
Webster City, Missouri James Pinching 79-NABB SL
51
Easter
Richiest
Mory
Rebecca J.
Ident
Lucretia
"
22-
24
16
14
12
William A.
?? who is
Richard ?
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_047.txt
1910 CENSUS TEXAS
SUPERVISOR'S DISTRICT NO. 16
ENUMERATION DISTRICT NO. 244 SHEET NO. 9 NAME OF INSTITUTION_
STATE 2exas
COUNTY Stephens
TOWNSHIP OR DIVISION OF COUNTY
Precinct #6
LOCATION
NAME
NAME OF INCORPORATED PLACE
RELATION
PERSONAL DESCRIPTION
NATIVITY
CEX form 1910 c 1983 Jeanne Robey Felldin
side 1
LOG#
DATE CENSUS TAKEN
WARD OF CITY
CITIZENSHIP
N 5 May 1910
Whether able to speak English; or,
if not, give language spoken.
Born
Класса Анн Гине
6. Dan 1857
m.n.A.mchat, out 1872
English 2. Jan 29, 1942
Street
(in cities or towns)
No. of dwelling nouse
order of visitation
House Number
No. of family in order
of visitation.
of each person whose place of abode on
April 15, 1910 was in this family.
Include every person living on April
15, 1910. Omit children born since
April 15, 1910.
n. A. mcnf. Apr. 2,
1848 - D: 326-1900
6.24 Do. 1857 139 142 McNabb
Relationship
of each
person to the
head of the
family
Sex
Color or race
Single, . wid.. divorced
Mother of how many childre
Age last birthday
No. of years married
☑ No. children living
Head FW
$ 62-18-18860 essie F SOIL ✓ 23
6 6-22-1813-Myrtle
75-30-1997-Mark
3
10-1-1880-nge w
7-15-1883 JAMES-T
§ 7-13-1889-ADA
1-12-1-1874-WALTER"
Clark McNabb
RANGER Clarks McNabb, 88; of
Ranger, died Monday in a hospital.
Funeral will be at 2:30 p.m.
Wednesday at First Baptist Church
In Ranger. Burial will be in Ever-.
green Cemetery in Ranger.
McNabb was born in 1897 in Ste-
phens County. He was a farmer and
rancher. He was a Baptist. F
Survivors include two sons, B.C.
Red" McNabb Jr. and Carson
McNabb, both of Ranger; three
daughters, Verna Graham and Cin
dy Bott, both of Ranger, and Cordel
la Truesdell of Kingsland; 15 grand-
children; 27 great-grandchildren;
and six great-great-grandchildren.
daug
ח:
Place of birth
of Father
Place of birth
of Mother
Yr. of immigration to US
Whether naturalized
or alien.
97 JX VA. VA.
2x TN 2X
18
2X TIN 24
SOIL M
12
2x TN 2X
SON T 30
TX TN TX
SON M 27
TX TN TX
DAUG F 21
TX TN TX
SON 7 36
TX TN TX
414
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_048.txt
USBAND'S
NAME
JAMES PINCKNEY MCNABB**
Where Carter County, Tennessee
When Born February 9, 1814
Christened
When Died
June 28, 1893
When Burled
June 29, 1893
When Married November 13, 1836
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) Barc.
His Father Nathaniel Taylor McNabb
IFE'S MAIDEN NAMI Easter
When Born
1818
After 1880 Census
Christened.
When Died
When Buried
Other Husb. (any)
Number (1) (2) DLC..
Her Father
CHILDREN
(ASTONNI order of birth)
Female
Where
Where Marshfield, Webster Cty, Missouri
DATA OBTAINED FROM: James P.'s autobiographical narrative; family records; and
Paddock, Capt. B.B. (ed.) A 20th Century History and Biographical Record of
North and West Texas Vol. 2, Lewis Publishing Co., 1906, Chicago. In which
on page 677, right hand column, top paragraph, James P. is listed with his
siblings and his father shown as Nathan (Nathaniel Taylor McNabb) McNabb, and
also on page 677, right hand column, entire second paragraph devoted to a
Where Timber Ridge Cemetery, Webster Cty, Mo. narrative of James P. McNabb's "various removals" with his wife and children
Where Bradley County, Tennessee
His Mother's Maiden Name Ellender McCubbins
FleNNikeN DeArmand
Where Cherokee Indian Nation, Tennessee
Where
_Where Probably Fannin Co. Texas
Macedonia Cametery, Stephen
"
Where
Her Mother's Maiden Name
State of
Country
WHEN BORN
Day
Monch
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Place
County
McMinn Cty
Tenn
Date
Co. Tot Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
WHEN DIED
DAY
Month
Address 1309 EAST - BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Married
DR
listed by name. In the narrative, James P. talks of his older brother
being
a "millwright". In the 1850 Bradley Cty Tenn Census on page 343, line 42 &
page 344 lines 1-6, James P. is listed with his family and then on lines 11-
19, Alfred W. McNabb is listed with his family and with his occupation as
a "millwright". On line 19, with Alfred W.'s family, is shown Ellender McNabb
age 66, who was the mother of Alfred W. age 41, and James P. age 36, in 1850.
In the 1840 Bradley Cty Tenn Census on page 53, Alfred W. McNabb is shown on
line 4 and James P. McNabb is shown on line 6. 1850 Census data shown above.
1860 Fannin Cty Texas Census, Bonham PO, page 260 reverse line 33-39 and on
page 261 lines 1,2,&3, James P. McNabb is
shown with his family listed by name.
In the 1870 Webster Cty Missouri Census,
Washington Tnshp, Sand Springs PO, page 1,348,
line 6-12, James P.is shown with his family
listed by name, and he is shown as blind.
(He became blind in the early 1860's, which
.caused his return to Missouri to be near his
son Albert H., who came to Texas and helped
the family to move back to Mo.) In the 1880
_Webster Cty Missouri Census, Grant Tnshp, p17A
ED 136, page 18, lines 43-46, James P. is'
shown with his wife Easter and his married
daughter, Mary E. Thomas and her 3 year old
daughter. No name is shown for Mary's
husband. // James P. moved from Carter Cty,
Tenn, before 1835, to Bradley Cty, Tenn; then
in 1851 to Webster Cty, Missouri; then in
1858 to Fannin Cty, Texas; then in 1860 to
Cooke Cty, Texas (Marysville); then in 1867
returned to Webster Cty, Missouri. Member of
the Methodist Church.
Webster Cty
Mo. 1923
Tenn
Mo. 1857.
"
"
Date 1858, Webster Cty, Mo.
ToMary Jane Long 1841-1926
Date
To
Date 30 Dec 1860 Cooke Cty,
ToTexas/Eliza A. Chapman
Date 1867-68
29 Jul 1926, To Eliza Jane Kitchen
Date
То
Stephens Cty Date Oct. 7, 1872
Tx, 26Mar1900 To Rebecca. Ann Turner
M
Albert Houston
M
2 Mathew
1837
1839
M
James M.
26 Feb 1841.
Carter Cty
"
M
Theodore Washington
5 Nov 1843
Bradley Cty
"
F
Mary E.
1846
Carter Cty
мх
Nathaniel Armstrong
2 April 1848
Carter Cty
M
William A.
Dec 1850
7
Probably Bradley Cty, Tn Mo. 1900
F
8 Rebecca J.
1852
Webster Cty, Missouri
Mo.
Date
То
"
Date
"
M
9
A.J. (probably died young)
1853
To..
"
"
After 1905
Date
circa 1870-71
*
F
10 Harriet Ann'
1855
F
11 Lucretia
1857
"
"
Date
Webster Cty To Frankin Minor, Pastor
To M. Hoff,Montague Cty, Tex
12
*The person to whom James Pinckney McNabb dictated his autobiographical narrative.
Date
To
Date
To Sarah Clementine Webb
-8177
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_049.txt
GEN
976.4
Plalt
1971
v.2,pt.2
HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHICAL
RECORD OF NORTH AND WEST
TEXAS
Vol. 2
B. B. Paddock, CAPT.
Pt. 2
Published on demand by 1
UNIVERSITY MICROFILMS
University Microfilms Limited, High Wycomb, England
A Xerox Company, Ann Arbor, Michigan, U.S.A.
· Lewis Publishing Co., Chicago 1906
416
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_050.txt
Paddock, Capt. B.B. (ed.) A 20th Century History & Biographical Record of
North and West Texas vol. 2. Chicago: Lewis Pub. Co.
1906
HISTORY OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS.
2
677
by a very large majority. As a Republican he
has done much to preserve and increase the in-
fluence of the party organization in this state.
He was a delegate to the national convention
in 1896, when McKinley was nominated, and
was also chosen a delegate to the party's na-
tional convention in Chicago in June, 1904. He
is senatorial chairman of the Republican state
committee for the twenty-ninth senatorial dis-
trict, and as such is a member of the state com-
mittee.
In addition to land and real estate Mr. Lutz is
in the insurance business. He has the abstract
books for Wilbarger county. The country in
this vicinity is thoroughly familiar to him, as he
has been over it in every direction. He is a
member of the executive committee of the
Texas Real Estate and Industrial Association,
with which he has been connected ever since its
organization several years ago. At his own
expense he prepared an attractive exhibit of the
resources and productions of Wilbarger coun-
ty for the St. Louis World's Fair, where he took
the silver medals on wheat and on cantaloupes.
At the Dallas Fair, 1905, he took first premium
on the best county exhibit, and three first pre-
miums on wheat, hard, soft, and winter wheat,
and second on oats.
Mr. Lutz is a Mason with the Knight Tem-
plar degrees and is connected with the local
commandery.
He was married at Vernon, December 25,
1897, to Miss Maud Thurman, and they have
three children: John, Robert and Mary.
JAMES M. MCNABB, a
a veteran of the Con-
federate army and one of the early settlers of
Cooke county, is a man of strength of character,
of firm purpose and of splendid qualities. He
is now devoting his attention to farming and
stock-raising. His birth occurred in east Ten-
nessee, February 26. 1841, and he was reared
to the honest toil of the farm, while the com-
mon schools afforded him his educational privi-
leges. His parents were James P. and Esther
(Flanagan) McNabb, both of whom were na-
tives of Tennessee; where they were married.
The paternal grandfather, Nathan McNabb, was
also a native of that state, and was of Scotch-
Irish descent. The family was established in
America at an early period in the development.
of the new world and representatives of the name
became pioneer settlers of Tennessee. 3 Nathan
YLOR McNabb became a prominent farmer and en-
joyed the trust and confidence of the people
throughout the community in which he lived. He
made his home in Tennessee up to the time of
his death. His children were: James P., father
of our subject; Nathaniel, who died in Texas;
Alford and Armstrong, who died in Tennessee;
Mrs. Lorina Stanley; and Fode.
2 James P. McNabb spent his youth in the state
of his nativity and was there married, after
which he began farming among the Cherokee
Indians, who still inhabited that section of the
state. In 1851 he sold his property there and
removed to Missouri, where he carried on gen-
eral agricultural pursuits until 1858. That year
witnessed the arrival of the family in Texas and
they first located in Fannin county, where they
raised two crops, coming thence to Cooke county
in 1860. They located the homestead near the
site of Marysville, although the village has been
platted since that time. The father secured one
hundred and sixty acres of land and later pur-
chased eighty acres. This he transformed into
a good farm whereon he spent his remaining
days. The family all came together to Texas
and the mother died in this county, after which
the father returned to Missouri, where his
death occurred in 1893. Both were members of 1893
the Methodist church and they were well known
in the community where their many excellent
traits of heart and mind gained them the friend-
ship of those with whom they were associated.
In their family were nine children: A. H., who
yet resides in Missouri; Mathew, who died in
that state at the age of eighteen years; James
M., of this review; Theodore W., who is living
in Nocona, Texas; Mary E., the wife of J.
Thomas Nathaniel who died in this state, leav-
ing a family; W. A., who died in Missouri;
Rebecca J., who married and died in Missouri;
and Lucretia, the wife of M. Hoff, of this
county. Harris ANNA born 1855.
James M. McNabb accompanied his parents
on their various removals until he became a res-
ident of Texas. Here he assumed the manage-
ment of his father's land and had erected a cabin
and secured some of the comforts of life, at the
same time placing a part of his land under cul-
tivation. He was married on the 30th of Decem-
ber, 1860, and was making arrangements for a
permanent settlement when in 1862 he enlisted
for service in the Confederate army as a mem-
ber of the Twenty-ninth Texas Cavalry under
command of Colonel DeMoss. The regiment was
assigned to the Trans-Mississippi department and
did service largely in Arkansas and the Indian
Territory, taking part in many skirmishes and
some fights. After reaching Fort Wichita, Mr.
McNabb was granted a thirty-days furlough and
this saved his entire family from being massacred
417
-Brother of 4 Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb, b. Apr 2, 1848--d. Mar 26, 1900.
James Pinckney McNabb, b. Feb 9, 1814--d. June 28, 1893. Father of " Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb, b. Feb. 5, 1783--d. after 1840 Bradley County, Tenn. Census. He
was the son of David McNabb, b. Feb 22, 1755--d. May 13, 1826 Carter County, Tenn. and
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb was the father of James Pinckney McNabb and the grandfather of
Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb, who was the father of Walter Scott McNabb, b Dec 1,1875-d.Sep 4,1936
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_051.txt
Beginning w/page 677, this is the only document that I have found
That definitely shows the relationship of the Eastern Tenn
McHalls & the Tex.
678
as + Misssor McNabbs.
HISTORY OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS.
by Indians. It was in the fall of 1863 and while
at home he heard that the red men were on a
raid. That night all the family left the cabin
and went to a neighbor's a few miles away. The
following morning Mr. McNabb returned to the
house alone with a saddle horse which he hitched
in the yard. He was looking about the cabin
when he saw the red men and as he left the
house he discovered that he was almost sur-
rounded, but noticing a vacant space he mounted
his horse and made his escape. The Indians
helped themselves to whatever they wanted,
burned the house and all its contents and left
the family with only what they wore. The Indi-
ans then went to the next house, that of Mr.
Potter, but they, too, had gone to the Saunders
home where the McNabbs had taken refuge.
There they pillaged and burned the place, after
which they started for the Saunders' home, where
the settlers had congregated and were making
ready to fight. As the Indians approached Cap-
tain Bowland also came with a part of his fron-
tier company and a battle ensued, three white
men being killed, after which they were buried
in blankets. The killed among the Indians was
not known, for according to their custom they
carried off their dead. They continued on in
the direction of Gainesville and picked up a
large herd of horses with which they made
across the Red river. This was the only fight
with the Indians in which Mr. McNabb took part.
Owing to the unsettled condition of the coun-
try and the constantly threatened dangers, he re-
moved his family to Fannin county, where they
remained until after the war was over. All of
his personal property-horses, household goods,
clothing and provisions-had been taken and
either used or destroyed by the Indians and the
family were therefore in a sad plight. After set-
tling in Fannin county Mr. McNabb returned
to the army and joined his command in Arkansas
on the Red river, where the troops were en-
camped for the winter. The following spring
they started in pursuit of the Federal troops
which they followed to Camden, where a fight
had taken place, known as the Saline river en-
gagement. Later Mr. McNabb with his regiment
took part in the campaigns through Arkansas
and eventually reached Hempstead, Texas, where
news of Lee's surrender was received.
regiment then disbanded, its members returning
to their homes. Some time before they had been
dismounted and all were compelled to make their
Iway home as best they could, most of them cov-
ering the distance on foot. Mr. McNabb had
participated in many skirmishes and some hotly
The
418
contested battles but was never wounded nor
captured. He saw hard service and underwent
many deprivations and trials incident to warfare.
When hostilities were over he joined his fam-
ily in Fannin county and they soon afterward re-
turned to the old homestead in Cooke county in
1865. The conditions that met them would have
utterly discouraged many a man of less resolute
spirit, for he had everything to make and nothing
to lose, owing to the depredations of the Indians
and the devastation of war. He built a cabin,
made boards to cover it and for a short time
slept on the dirt floor. Later he obtained poles
which he inserted into holes bored into the logs.
in the corner of the cabin and also into a post
set in the ground and thus he made a bedstead.
The Indians continued their hostilities and depre-
dations for some time and Mr. McNabb remained
upon the farm until 1867, when he sold out and
removed to Missouri, but made no permanent
settlement in that state. He did freighting and
other such work as he could secure to make an
honest living and in the fall of 1870 returned
to Texas, locating in Grayson county, where he
rented land and carried on farming for seven
years. In 1877 he came to Montague county,
where he purchased land and yet makes
his home. He first became owner of two
hundred acres in the cross timber and built
thereon a small box-house. Within a short
time he had placed some of his land under
cultivation and as the years have gone by the
farm has become self-supporting and as his finan-
cial resources have increased he has added to
the property until he now owns six hundred and
forty acres. He has removed the house from its
original to its present site, has added to it and
remodeled it and now has a commodious frame
residence. There are also good barns and out-
buildings on the place, a wind-mill and water for
all purposes. There is likewise a bearing orchard
and the farm is a well improved property with
two hundred acres under cultivation devoted
to the raising of various crops. He has also
given considerable attention to stock raising and
has had some very fine horses. As the years
passed by he prospered in his undertakings and
now that his children are all married and he
and his wife are left alone they are spending the
evening of life in the enjoyment of the fruits of
their former toil, Mr. McNabb having rented his
farm lands and retired from active labor.
It was on the 30th of December, 1860, that
Mr. McNabb was married to Miss Eliza A.
Chapman, who was born in Knox county, Ten-
nessee, in 1843. Her parents were Aciel P. and
1
Y
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_052.txt
HISTORY OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS.
Margaret E. (Hood) Chapman, both of whom
were natives of Tennessee. The father was a
son of James T. Chapman, who resided at Mem-
phis, Tennessee, and on one occasion all of the
members of the family who were at home were
stricken and died of yellow fever, save the
father, who afterward removed to Knox county,
where his death occurred. His children were:
Addeberry, Aciel, William, Charles and Mrs.
Malinda Landis.
in
Aciel Chapman was reared to manhood
Knox county, where he married, and later he
removed to Roan county, while subsequently he
became a resident of Missouri, where he was en-
gaged in farming. He afterward took up his
abode in Tennessee and was a river man, act-
ing as captain of some boats on the Ohio, Ten-
nessee and other rivers for many years. In Mis-
souri he devoted four years to farming and in
1859 he removed to Texas, settling in Jack coun-
ty, where he purchased land and began its im-
provement. While on a deer hunt he was killed
by a band of Indians, in July, 1860, being then
forty years of age. His early manhood had
been spent in steamboating, but later he de-
termined to give his attention to farming. This
plan, however, was frustrated by his early death.
His wife raised one crop in Parker county and
in 1862 removed with her family to Cooke county,
where she afterward became the wife of G. W.
Kitchen. To avoid the war troubles and the In-
dian depredations they settled south of San An-
tonio, where they remained until called to their
final rest, Mrs. Kitchen passing away in August,
1905. She was a consistent member of the Bap-
tist church. By her first marriage she had nine
children: James T., who is living in Dallas,
Texas; Mrs. Eliza McNabb; Mrs. Mandaily
Sweeton; Frank T., a farmer of western Texas;
Mark, who was killed by Indians in Cooke county
in 1867; Mrs. Candace Langley; Josephus, a far-
mer; John, a farmer and stock. man, who died
leaving a wife and two children; and Charles,
a farmer and butcher.
Mr. and Mrs. McNabb have become the pa-
rents of seven children: Joseph P., a resident
farmer of Oklahoma; A. L., who is following
agricultural pursuits in the Indian Territory;
Mary E., the wife of S. Carpenter; Ed. L., a
farmer of the Territory; Lilly A., who became
Mrs. Tucker and after his death married Mr.
Patterson, their home being now in the Choctaw
Nation: Rosa A., the wife of J. H. Goodpas-
ture, of Whitesboro, Texas; and Ina M., the
wife of T. S. Goodpasture, a farmer of the In-
dian Territory. The family circle yet remains
679
unbroken by the hand of death and all of the
children are well settled in life.
.
Mr. McNabb, as the architect of his own
fortunes, has builded wisely and well. He has
had only the assistance of his wife, who has been
to him a faithful companion and helpmate on
life's journey. Together they have lived and la-
bored and have created a good estate, all be-
ing made in Montague county. Many hardships,
trials and difficulties fell to their lot in their
early married life but as the years have gone
by their labor and perseverance have overcome
these and prosperity has now crowned their ef-
forts.
419
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_053.txt
cty,
m
JAMES PINCKNEY MCNABB
boen
Feb 9, 1814, Washington
Tenn. died June 28, 1893 in Webstor Cty, Missouri, huis
Tember Ridge Cemetery, Webstor Ct.
married November 13, 1836
: FenniRen
1.
Easter
?
to
?
сту
Mo.
((Dearmond (+))) to
d (+)) born in 1818 in Cherokee.
Indian Nation, Tenn. She was
full-bloed Cherokse. She died
after the 1880 Cnses inFannin Co., Taxes, where she had
come from Webster ct, Mo. to tend to
her sick sister,
She is buried in Macedonia Cemetery, Stephens Co. Texas,
beside her son Nathaniel Armstrong
McNabb.
420
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_054.txt
JAMES PINCKNEY MCNABB & EASTER MCNABB- Saga of the 1800's
From Tennessee to Missouri to Texas back to Missouri
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb & Ellender McCubbins McNabb's son, James
Pinckney McNabb, b. Feb. 9, 1814 d. June 28, 1893, was born in
Carter County, Tenn. and died in Marshfield, Webster County,
Missouri. On Nov. 13, 1836 in Bradley Cty. Tenn. James P. married
Easter Flenniken Dearmond b. 1818 d. after the 1880 census. She
no
was born on the Cherokee Indian Nation in Tennessee and was a full
blood Cherokee. She died in Fannin Co. Texas where she had gone
from her home in Webster Cty. Missouri, after 1880, to tend to her
sister who was ill. The family story is that she caught the same
illness, died and was buried in Texas, at an unknown place because
one knows the sister's name, where she lived in Texas, or even
the year that Easter traveled to Texas. However, James P. & Easter
had a son, Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb b. April 2, 1848 d. March 26,
1900, who had moved within 3 miles of Macedonia Cemetery in 1876 &
later, in 1900, was buried in the McNabb family plot in Macedonia
Cemetery, Lascasas (Could be two words) Community, Stephens Cty., Texas,
on Ioni Creek, with space left vacant on one side for his wife,
Rebecca Ann Turner b. Dec. 24, 1857 d. Jan. 29, 1942, but when Rebecca
Ann passed away and the space beside Nathaniel A. McNabb was being
excavated, it was discovered that some person in a coffin had already
been buried there so the grave was immediately reclosed. Thus, two
things. First, Rebecca Ann McNabb, Nathaniel A's wife had to be
buried serveral spaces away from her husband as children were earlier
buried in the intervening spaces and second, it is surmised that
when Easter died, Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb, her son, was notified
and he arranged for his mother's burial in the family plot in Texas,
instead of returning her for burial to Missouri. Inasmuch as Easter's
burial could well have been 15-18 years prior to that of Nathaniel
A. and 55 to 60 years prior to Rebecca Ann's burial, it is quite
possible that no one remembered that Easter was buried in the family
plot. Few even know why (in 1992) Nathaniel A. & Rebecca are not
buried side by side.
Back to the beginning for James Pinckney & Easter McNabb. They had
11 children, 7 boys and 4 girls. They were Albert Houston 1837,
Mathew 1839, James M. 1841, Theodore Washington 1843, Mary E. 1846,
Nathaniel Armstrong 1848, William A. 1850, Rebecca J. 1852, A.J. 1853,
Harriet Ann 1855, Lucretia 1857. James P. as a young man, moved
from his birthplace in Carter Cty., Tennessee to the area that would
become Bradley Cty. Tenn. and thence to the Cherokee Indian Nation
and back to Bradley Cty. Tennessee all before November 1836 when he
married Easter Flenniken. They lived variously from 1837 in McMinn
Cty. Tenn. to Carter Cty. Tenn. to Bradley Cty. Tenn., back to Carter
Cty. Tenn., then in 1851 to Webster Cty., Missouri. They then moved
to Fannin Cty. Texas in 1858, to Cooke Cty. Texas in 1860, back to
Fannin Cty. Texas, until the end of the Civil War, then back to Cooke
Cty. until 1867 when with the help of their eldest son Albert Houston
McNabb, who had come from Missouri to assist them, they returned to
Webster Cty. Missouri. James P. had become blind in 1861-62 so
remained in Webster Cty. Missouri where he accumulated considerable
land prior to his death, on June 28, 1893, which was an unusual
and accidental circumstance, as follows.
After becoming blind in 1861-62 James P. acquired a dog that went
everywhere with him & guided him around the many hazards to be found
on his Missouri farm. On June 25, 1893 James P. had gone some distance
from the house to cut & gather firewood. In the process he became
injured but the dog assisted him sufficently for him to make it back
to the house. Other family members placed the injured man on a pallet
of quilts in the bed of a wagon. Apparently not enough care or skill
was exercised and the wagon turned over on the way to Marshfield, Mo.
& James P. was thrown from the wagon and died of his multiple injuries
on June 28, 1893 & was buried in Timber Ridge Cemetery, Webster Cty.,
Missouri. Following is a Narrative dictated circa 1871-72 by James
Pinckney McNabb to his daughter, Harriet Ann McNabb. →
In 1989, Clyde and Cloie McNabb lived on the James Pinckney McNabb
home place, i.e., RR1, Box 1045, Marshfield, Missouri. Clyde McNabb's
father was Harry E. McNabb,
1882, whose father was Albert Houston
McNabb 1837-1923, whose father was James Pinckney McNabb 1814-1893.
421
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_055.txt
A SIMPLE NARRATIVE OF PLAIN FACTS
As related by James P. McNabb.
(Father
d. Je 28,1893
of Harriet Ann
McNabb
Reader, indulge an old man, sitting in the Evening of Life in
Impentrable darkness, in recalling the unpretending incidents of a
not uneventful lige.
James P. McNabb, the subject of the following sketch, was the
TAYLOR
son of Nathaniel/McNabb, and was born the ninth day of Feb. 1814.
OUR
:
I was raised in the County of Carter, East Tennessee. My father and
ELLENDER MCCUBBINS, MCNABB
mother/were both invalids, and when I arrived at the age of 13 years,
the support of my afflicted parents and family, mainly rested upon
my young shoulders. There were nine children of us-4 boys and 5
girls. When not laboring in home, or in some other profitable way
for the family, I would obtain employment from home, yet near by,
to get the money to pay for such articles as were really needful in
a family, such as we could not manufacture ourselves. Thus my
boyhood days were spent in labor and toil, and very few indeed were
the hours of leisure.
When cold winter came on, my task was rendered doubly difficult,
owing to a lack of even ordinary conveniences and means of per
forming it. I had to haul fuel on a one-horse sled a distance of
half a mile or more, and often through snow from 6 to 8 inches in
depth; and rails by the same conveyance through the sleet and storms
of winter, a distance of a mile. The school boy at his comfortable.
desk and fireside, surrounded by joyous, happy companions mingling
with him in a generous rivalry in the pursuit of knowledge and
pleasure, knows little of the hardships that bow the shoulders,
Pal
• JAMES Pinckney MCNABB, 970b. 1814 to June 28,
1893.
མག་གྲུ་མད་27ཁ་ས}
422
TAKENT
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_056.txt
-2-
sadden the hearts and dim the eyes of youth as sensitive, ambitious
=
and capable as themselves, that by the frowns of adversity, are
☐ forced to take upon them takks that try the courage and test the
fidelity of manhood. What need have I to mention the toil exposure
suffering, anxiety, the weighted upon my young heart, during those
long years. Ask the parent, the head of a family, what it is to
feel the responsibility of providing for a large circle of helpless
ones,
and feel that his two arms are their main stay and shield
Throw this load upon the shoulders of a lad that in years is little
more than a child, and you will have some conception of burdens that,
made a stout, bold, young heart prematurely thoughtful and grave.
speak not so much of the bodiby, physical hardships and toils—they
were severe enough, and if they had been lightened by the pleasures,
pastimes, and merriment that belongs to youth, of themselves they
were nothing, but the hard necessity that robs youth and boyhoods
of its mirth and gaiety, is the saddest, and hardest to be bome.
Mi
به ته
•
I would not have my kind-hearted reader believe that I recall
these seenes of my early life with one thought of bitterness or
regret. I feel now, as I felt then, that all the hardships I suffered
and endured were duties--responsible duties, that I owed to an a
efflicted father and mother, and my brothers and sister, who were
unable at that time make their support.
After a time, a younger brother had grown large enough to assist
me in providing for the family, and his assistance afforded me some
spare time to work for myself. And being thus relieved by the help
of my younger brother, when I became of age, I was the owner of a
horse, saddle and bridle; --and kind reader, I would not have you
423
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_057.txt
-3-
believe that I had in anywise neglected the duties due my aged and
afflicted parents, in thus becoming the individual owner of a horse;
this little spec of wealth, of which I was now the sole proprietor,
was the accumulation of spare hours earned by extra exertions and
BORN: 7 July 1818
denial.
NATHANIEL TAYLOR MENABB I
1834
My younger brother/being now 16 years of age, I left home, in
ALFRED W. MCNABB, 6.1809
search of employment. I had an elder brother, 1 a Mill-Wright, living
200 miles from father's, and cheered with bright and glowing prospects
for the future, I journeyed to his home--not on a whirling lightning.
express train, as the world today journeys, but on the patient back
of my gentle horse, comsumming days, where now a like trip would
not require as many hours, reached my brother's house about the last
of Oct. It was some disappointment to me to find that my brother
was not working at his trade. He promised me, however, that if I
would do his alls work and help him gather his crop, he would find
12
employment for us both by the close of the year.
Acting upon his
assurances, I remained with him, and freely rendered the assistance
he desired.
At the close of the year, I was without money, and to my surprise
as well as mortification, the promises of my brother proved a total
failure. At this unhappy and unlooked for result, I left my horse
with my brother, and started afoot for a little town in Georgia by
the name of Rome, and reached it the following day. Here I found
employment at $12.50 per month, and after working 6 months, received
letter from my brother, requesting me to come and get my horse,
as he intended moving back to my father's. Rome was 100 miles distant
424
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_058.txt
from my brother's.
I left Rome with the intention of going back to
my father's by the way of my brother's, but when I reached the home
of the latter, I found him making arrangements to move to the
Indian Nation. Here again, was a sad disappointment to me, and I
finally yielded to the urgent solicitations of my brother, and went
with him to the Indian Nation. My brother, promised me an equal
share with himself in farming or in any business in which we might
engage.
:
We reached the Indian country about the first of March and we
fenced and cleared about 20 acres; and just as we were about to
pitch the crop, there came a man from a considerable distance, to
employ my brother to build a mill; an agreement was made between.
them, and I, of course, had to remain at home and cultivate the crop,
and take care of his family. To a young man as I then was, the life
I had to lead was very confining. Living in an Indian country, I
had to stay close at home, day and night. When not engaged in the
crops, I employed myself in clearing more land for the next year's.
One whole year had rolled away ere my brother returned
cultivation.
A
+
to his home. He came home with plenty of money. I received for my
years salary $11.00 in money, and a something else besides, too
the
insignificant to mention. Existing circumstances, as well also
persuasions of my brother, influenced me in uniting with him in the
cultivation of another crop. In the fall, as soon as the crop was
matured, we divided the effects. I then built me a house, moved into
it and lived alone about four months.
It would scarcely seem necessary to say to my reader, especially
425
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_059.txt
-5-
if he be blessed with sharp perceptive gaculties, that my new house
m. Nov. 13, 1836
indicated a worthy and sensible purpose. Being now married and living
at home, I partially forgot my past trials and troubles, but it was
P
not long before a sad accident befel me. On the 29th day of March
1837, I was engaged clearing a piece of timbered land, and while
dislodging a tree that had fallen against another, I was sever you
wounded, and rendered unable to work for nearly a year.
It was now three years since I had seen my father and family;
I concluded, therefore, as soon as I was able to travel, to go and
see how they were getting along! I found them living an unfavorable,
and I might say uncomfortable condition. My younger brother had left
them and had been gone nearly a year. My father insisted that I
2
I should come and take care of him as he was in a helpless condition.
I returned home, and it was a year before I could make arrangements
to pay them another visit. I found my father
ENTHRALLED
with de bts.
I went back home, and returned
and much reduced in circumstances.
with my family to my father's, erected for myself a good hewed log
house on his premises, and with my own money discharged the principal
and most pressing debts against him. And, generous readers, owing to
misfortune had gained only about $300 in my three years absence; but
although my portion was but scant, I gave it with good will.
My attention was first directed towards making repairs, and in
arrangements for seed-time and harvest. By the time I had made one
crop, all my means were exhausted, and the experience of one crop.
enabled me to see most clearly that on such land in that old
A country, I could not support two families, and consequently, in the
Espring of 1840, I moved back and settled in the woods, not far from
426
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_060.txt
the place where I was married, to obtain a pre-emption on 160 acres,
with an allowance of twelve month's time in which to make the pay-
:
ments. Money was searce, and the prices paid for labor extremely
low, and when the twelve months expired, I had just money enought to
pay for 80 acres. One of my neighbors prevailed on me to borrow the
money and pay for the remaining 80 acres for him, and I did so, acting
under assurances from him, that the money would be refunded in a very
short time. The short time never came, and I was soon made to feel
home
that my own little was placed in a critical condition. The time for
making the payment was fast approaching. I went to my neighbor, and
spread before him in a clear and truthful light, the condition in
which I would soon be placed, if he did not raise the money I had
borrowed for him, and he paid me in words; total inability, total
insolvency, and total do nothing. Times were hard, money extremely
scarce, and prices for labor almost nothing. I went to a merchant,
a man of wealth; I stated the case to him; he listened patiently,
and without hesitation, gave me all the money I wished on twelve
months time. I then paid my heighbor for his improvements, and took
the land. In six months from the time the friendly merchant let me
have the money, I paid the debt; money earned by hard labor, and at
low prices.
114.
After the foregoing trials, troubles and disappointments, I did
not falter, kind reeder, in my efforts, but on the contrary, in the
heat of summer, I split rails at twenty-five cents per hundred and
found myself, to provide the necessaries of life for my then helpless
family We had seven in family, and our circumstances reduced to
almost nothing. And now it was that I was brought to meditate upon
427
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_061.txt
-7-
+
the vanites of all earthly treasures%; That thirty years had now
passed away, all; all of it wasted in worldly pursuits, of no real
nor lasting importance, and that now I found my self a complete
wreck in the midst of it all. The more I reflected on the past
more I was convinced of the sin and folly of my past life, and that
was now enduring a severe but merciful chastisement.: Kind reader
the
and friends, the more I thought, the more I felt the weight of
sense of sin and
Divine displeasure; my eyes were being opened to a
unworthiness; and I trod the path of prayer as a humble penitent in
search of forgiveness. I obtained it. The quickening influence of
God's Holy Spirit, was enkindled in my heart. I was happy and rejoiced
I sought the House of God, the Methodist Church, and my name was en-
rolled as a member. Twenty years have elapsed since then, but not
a moment I have not felt composed and resigned to our Heavenly
Father's will, and now, beloved and gentle reader, before I leave this
subject, let me entreat you, as warmly and earnestly as I would my
own dear children, to direct your thoughts to purer, loftier, and
N
_holier scenes; put our trust in God's Holy Word, full to overflowing
with the richest treasures, make sure work for the Kingdom of Heaven,
and you will be happy amid the direst calamities of earth.
In the fall of 185, I huddled together my little effects, and
emigrated with my little family to Missouri. I settled in the woods
A yoke of oxen, one wagon,
near Pleasant Prairie in Webster County.
The winter was very
and $60 in money, completed my worldly wealth.
cold and severe, and our prospects seemed unpromising, but the people
were friendly, and treated us with great respect.
The opening spring
was cheering to us all. I went to work in good earnest,
cleared ten
428
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_062.txt
-8-
acres of ground, fenced it and put eight acres in cultivation, rented
six more of a neighbor, and for strangers in a new land, all things
seemed to move on smoothly. My oldest son was hired out, and a certain-
man took occasion to treat him with disrespect. I went over to re-
3.
'
concile matters and was treated in the same manner. Our meeting.
terminated pugilistically. He sued me at law, and his own heighbors
paid the cost and fine for me. I make use of the uncommonly long
word "pugilistically," to hide within its folds, even from myself,
_ the deep shame and mortification I feel, and to me this word sounds
less harsh, and seems to weaken the force and strength of the fact.
Our health continued good for two years after our arrival in
Missouri.
From this time, and for five consecutive years, sickness
continued its inflictions upon us, and in September 1857, the spirit
of our beloved son Mathew took its flight from earth to brighter
realms above. Anxiety, fatigue, and loss of sleep prostrated me
on a bed of sickness; and when I recovered I resolved to leave
Missouri, as soon as I could, in search of a milder and more uniform
climate. I left Missouri for Texas, in the fall of 1858, and reached.
Fannin County with my family, ten in number, and with five cents
in my pocket. I had five head of horses to winter, and only five.
cents to begin with. I rented land of a man who was going to
Tennessee on a visit. He left the place and the stock in my care.
I was told by several, that this man of whom I rented, was under
bad character, but my necessity compelled me to hold on and risk the
consequences. I broke a number of acres with a four-horse team, and
pitched a crop., But before harvest the man returned, seemed much.
pleased with what I had done, and we made an agreeable settlement.
א
429
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_063.txt
-9-
continued with him, sowed wheat, and tented the place for anot her
year. After I had made all the preparations for another winter, he
told me he wanted the place for his cousin. I consented, rather than
have a difficulty, and sold him my wheat crop. My neighbor's words
finally came true, for when pay-day came, he fraudulently deprived
me of my wheat crop.
•
The next season, I rented land of a neighbor, and he was a gentle-
men. I cultivated the crops on his land. I now determined to go;
in search of a piece of land where I could get water and timber
convenient. I found it in Cook County, and moved my family in August
1860, and sheltered under tents on the land until I could erect a
building. We were now living 80 miles from Fannin County. When our
house was suffiently comfortable, I returned to Fannin County, to
gather my crop and haul it home. My crop being all saved and snugly)
stowed away at home, I commenced preparations for a crop the coming
year on what I now considered my own land. We were all together and
en in number. I had labored for many years, and I felt now more than
ever before, that a bright prospect was opening for a quick comfortable
and happy home. Meeting together at night, after the toils of the
day were over, we would talk over our past reverses in life, humbly
kneel to God our Heavenly Father, and retire to rest with peaceful
hearts, and composed minds. My little stock was increasing around
me, my home, though plain, was snug and comfortable.
land in abundance for my children to settle around me, and be near me
in my old age. I was at peace with God--felt that I had wronged no
man, and dear reader, for one like me who had gone through so much
ten.
There was
430
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_064.txt
-10-
tribulation%3B my home felt to me somewhat as though it were within the
gates of Paradise.
'
Oh! how painful to me now to recur to what at first only se emed
a trifle, but which finally culminated in a serious calamity. In
June, 1861, I was taken with the sore eyes, and was confined for
some weeks to the house. In November. I was taken with neuralgiac
pain in my head and eyes, and in a little time lost my sight. In
the spring of 1862, my sight partially returned, but in July the
The war was now raging
pains returning, I was again struck blind.
with desperate fury%; the conscript law was in force%; my son, on whom.
I chiefly depended, enlisted to avoid the conscription, and my other"
son who was married, also enlisted, and I was left, a blind man in the
midst of a helpless family of boys and girls. To heighten the scene.
of desolation around us, we were living upon the confines of the
Indian District, and they had extended their work of murder and
plunder to within a short distance of us. They commenced their
dreadful work of murder, arson and plunder, in the fall of 1862, and
in the spring of 1863, they completed a scene of murder and outrage,
within a mile of our house. Our hopes of safety seemed only in
flight, and we traveled away as fast as we could, and did not stop
until we had gone 80 miles. Learning shortly after, that a regiment
home.
←
of soldiers was stationed near where we lived, we returned to our
Shortly after our arrival here, I heard that a skillful
Oculist was at Paris, one hundred miles distant, and I obtained a
mode of conveyance to Paris, hoping to have my sight restored.
physician sold me medicine, but gave me little or no encouragement,
In a short time
and the man who took me there left me at a tavern.
The
431
專
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_065.txt
-11-
I was favored by a stranger, who took me in his wagon, as far as the
residence of my brother-in-law, within 80 miles of my home. I had
been from home about a month. I got a conveyance as soon as I could,
for I was filled with concern and anxiety about the safety of my
family. On our way, at a place where we stopped for the night, there
was a woman, a stranger, whom I never shall forget. She was a boarder.
in the family, and had the appearance of being a woman of wealth. Her
kind and gentle manners towards me, and words of sympathy, are what I
never shall forget, and shall ever love to remember. On leaving the
next morning, she offered me money, which I refused to take, saying
"that I had enough for present use." She so urged it upon me that I
finally accented $1.50 to manifest my appreciation of her warm and
generous feelings. This trip in search of relief cost me $50, and I
reached home as I had left it, a blind man, but not disconsolate, for
amid the vanity, trials and afflictions of this life, the soul at peace
with its God, rejoiceth, and will rejoice from everlasting to ever-
lasting.
Reader! I was now at home again, and the idea of home carries with
It a something that is comforting and soothing to the breast of every
James M.)
one. One of my sons who had joined in the war, was now at home on a
(Fall of 1863)
sick furlough. The Indians had again renewed their ravages and work
of destruction, and helpless citizens were now in a state of dreadful
consternation. No one had a home of safety for even a single hour.
Little groups of aged men and helpless women and children, were to be
seen in every direction collected together by feelings of instant.
concern.
432
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_066.txt
-12-
The causes of fear and alarm increasing our family_
by some of
our neighbors and we remained with them all night; the next morning
my son who had returned home on furlough, went back to see about the
horses we had lot-
ed of 150 or 200 Indians discovered and
pursued him; once in safety, and now panic-struck with fear, all of
us fled
could to a neighbor's house one mile and a quarter dis-
tant. In the house there were huddled together about 60 persons, men,
and children, and very soon the house was surrounged by a bout
women,
180 Indians.
There were not over twelve men and boys in the house that
were able to give the least protection, and these manifesting so much
alarm, caused the women to make an attempt to escape to the woods.
At this time, the Indians, being in a body above the house, we managed
in making our escape, trying to keep the house between us and the
Indians. I was scarcely able to travel, and felt sure of falling
(b. 1852)
a victim to the savages. My dear little daughter, Rebecca, of ten
years, clung to me all the time. I entreated her to leave me and save
herself by keeping up with the rest%3B that my strength was almost gone
and there seemed but little hope of my safety. But the love and.
fidelity of this dear child, was not to be overcome by fear or persuasion.
----
My son assisted me, and we made our escape. The news came that there
was a company of fifty soldiers in pursuit of the Indians; that they
were in close pursuit. The Indians fled to a high position on the
prairie.
The soldiers advanced on them and an engagement ensued.
The soldiers were driven back a short distance, three of their number.
being killed, and three wounded. The soldiers soon rallied for a
second conflict, advanced and fired on the Indians, who fled, murdering
burning, robbing as they went. My house with its contents was burned
and horses taken about the time of our flight from home, Christmas week
433
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_067.txt
18637
186
=
We were now adrift in the world, with simply the clothes we wo
Every house and home was being deserted. A large number of us
MARYSVILLE
the guard of soldiers, were taken to a little town/about 15 miles
distant. It was now winter, and we had but three quilts which were
given to us, and one blanket that I usually wore as an overcoat.
We left the town the next morning for Fannin County, where we rented
land and managed to live in a very hard way, until the war closed.
My family now wished to move back to the place we had lived in Cook
County We returned to our old place. The County had been made.
desolate by the Indians, but now, (in 1865) settlers were straggling.
back to their old homes%; but in the fall several outrages were
committed by the Indians, which much alarmed and finally compelled the
settlers to "Fort up,' "by building a number of cabins very close to
each other. In the spring of 1866, we nitched a crop, and during the
crop season, my son who had been in the army, married, and very soon
thereafter sickness came upon us, and we were all helpless, and the
stock destroyed the crop after it was mature. It was now the fall of
ALBERT HOUSTON MCNABB, 6.1837
the year,
and my son/who had remained in Missouri came to see us.
✓ As the Indians were still troublesome, he advised me to sell and remove
to Missouri
in 1867
On our way to Missouri, whilst passing through the Indian Nation
an incident occurred, which wrung our hearts with the deepest distress
While in camp on a high (bluff) my oldest son with my, two youngest
دیاتو
girls went some distance to a steep declivity for some water. On
Harrist
returning up the bank, the elder girl slipped, and was carried in
_agently ro manuer down the hill some distance. To avoid the
preceding accident, she thought she would go some distance round but
Frolling me
434
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_068.txt
-14-
in circling round lost the direction to camp.
In ab
after she
was missed, and the Loudest calls were answered by the echoes of the
No tongue can express the anguish of our hearts.
hills and forest
was blind and could not look after the little wanderer.
After three.
or four hours harrowing suspense she came bearing in her hand, a pine
bush, which a man present, affirmed could not have been obtained nearer.
than three miles. The child stated, that when she found that she was
lost she listened to hear the ox bell, and having wandered from hill
1 to hill she at last came to a house on a road, and was there directed
to our camp.
We reached Missouri with three horses, three yoke of oxes and
wagon. One of the horses died and the other two strayed or were
William A.MCNABB, b. Dec. 1850.
I have with
me now my wife and four daughters; and my sons are all gone. My
youngest daughter is my help and guide, religion is my comforter,
God is my hope.
stolen. My youngest son/remained with me until 1869.
"Poor wanderers of a stormy day,
"From wave to wave were driven,
"And Fancy's flash, and Reason's ray,
"Serve but to light the troubled way-.
"There's nothing calm but Heaven.
17
and
435
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_069.txt
THE EASTERN BAND OF CHEROKEES 1819-1900
TENNESSEE
Wooden deer head from Key Marco (Marco
Island, Florida), probably Calusa
CHATTANOOGA
ALABAMA
ESSEE
Hiwassee
New Echola
OFT. PAYNE
⑥COLLINSVILLE
LEBANON.
Map 1. Cherokee Nation, 1819-1838
CHICKASAW
Knoxville
Valley Mission
• Asheville
NORTH CAROLINA
⚫Quallatown
SOUTH
CAROLINA
E.
GEORGIA
CLEVELAND,
°
MILES
TENNESSEE
30
⑧ELIZABETHTON, TENNESSEE
SAPONI
MONACAN
TUTELO
ENO
SUGEREE WOCCON
YUCHI
CHEROKEE
CHERAW
CATAWBA
WATEREE
PEDEE
CUSABO
CADDO
TUNICA
OFO
YAZOO
HASINAI
TAENSA CHOCTAW
TOHOME
KOASATI
TUSKEGEE
CHAKCHIUMA
NAPOCHI
REEK
HITCHITI
ALABAMA
CHIAHA
TAMATHLI
YAMASEE
GUALE
NATCHEZ
CHATOT
HOUMA
MOBILE
BIDAI
ATAKAPA
CHITIMACHA
CHAWASHA
BILOXI
APALACHEE
PENSACOLA
miles
THE SOUTHEAST CULTURE AREA, showing approximate tribal locations (with modern boundaries)
436
TIMUCUA
WACCAMAW
AIS
SEMINOLE
CALUSA
TEKÉSTA
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_070.txt
THE LORD'S PRAYER IN CHEROKEE
(Our Father, which art in Heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
Ꮳ Ꭼ Ꮎ ᏳᎪ
Ꭰ Ꮒ Ꭱ Ꮆ Ꭺ Ꮆ
Tsa- gun- wi- yu- hi ge-
sun wi- ga- na- lun- go- 1.
Ꭸ Ꮢ
Ꮒ Ꭶ
Ꮻ
Ꭶ Ꮎ Ꮔ ᎪᎢ
Ꮭ Ꮝ Ꮣ
Ꭽ
Ꮦ Ꮕ Ꮦ
Ꮿ
Ꭶ Ꮈ Ꮃ Ꮧ
Ga- lun, la- ti
Ꮒ Ꮒ £ Ꮭ
tsi- ni- ga- li
- ni e- lo- hi wi- ni- ga- 11 s- da ha- da- nun- ta
Ꮝ Ꭼ Ꭲ Ꮎ Ꮝ Ꭹ
s- Sun- 1, na- 8- 61- ya
Ꮝ Ꮧ Ꭽ
s- di- ha
(Thy Kingdom come.
Heaven.)
Thy will be done in earth, as it is in
Ꮩ Ꮦ Ꭱ
Ni- da- to- da- qui- sun
b A AT S
81 zo- hi- 1- ga.
Ᏹ Ꭶ Ꮭ Ꮝ Ꮣ Ᏼ Ꮧ Ꮿ Ꭹ
° 6a- li- s- da- un- di
(ive us this day our daily broad. )
Ꭵ
2-61-un-
Ꮙ Ꮓ ᏕᏍᎩ Ꮪ E Ꭲ
D- Ke- e- Ei- un- ti- quo- no de- a- E1- du- un- i,
Ꮧ Ꭸ Ꮝ Ꭹ Ꭵ
Ꮟ
Ꮎ Ꮝ Ꭹ Ꮿ Ꮵ
Ꮧ
Ꭶ Ᏺ
Ꮵ Ꮑ Ꭸ Ꮶ Ꮵ
na- e- {1- ya tri- di- Sa- yo
tsi- na- 6%
tso- tsi- du- E1.
(And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.)
Ꭰ Ꮄ
?- lo
Ꮮ Ꮝ Ꮧ Ꭴ Ꮣ Ꭺ Ꮭ Ᏸ Ꮧ Ᏹ ᎨᎡ .
tlo- -- di u- da- go- li- ye- di-
Ꮕ Ꮝ Ꮤ Ꮕ Ꭹ
Ꮻ Ꮨ Ꮝ Ꭹ Ꮿ Ꮨ
ni- di- e- Ei- ya ti- nun- f- ta- nun-61)
Ꮄ Ꮝ ᎨᏍᏗ Ꮙ
le-
F- ge- s- di- quo
Ꮳ
Ꮴ
Ꮭ Ꮽ Ꮽ Ꮓ
Tsa- tse- li- ga- ye- no
Ꭰ Ꮄ
Ꮳ Ꮭ Ꮒ
ກ
a- [i- ni
yi
Ꮝ Ꭹ Ᏻ Ꮦ
60,- sun
s- Ei- yu- da-
Ᏺ Ꭸ Ꭱ
u- yo Ꮛe- sun- 1,
ᏫᏳᎯ Ꭸ
Ꮝ Ꭹ
Ꮒ
Ꮳ
tsa-
Ꭼ
kun-
Ꭹ Ꮧ Ᏹ
Ꭸ
Ꭸ Ꭱ Ꮒ
Ꭺ
Ꭿ Ꮈ Ꭲ Ꭱ
a- lo tsa- 11- i- gi-- di- yi
Q ᏉᏗ Ᏻ
lun- quo- di- yu
ᎡᎢ
wi-yu- hi ge- sun-1,
Ꭱ Ꭲ Ꭰ Ꮄ
ge- sun- ni- go- h1- lun- 1.
Ꭱ Ᏻ
*
tsa-
Ꮕ
- me- nun.
(And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil:
For thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
☐ forever. A-en.).
Courtesy Col. Martin A. Hagerstrand, Executive Director,
Cherokee National Historical Society, Tahlequah, Oklahoma.
437
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_071.txt
Cherokee
The Trail of Tears occupies a special place in Native
American history. Many tribes have similar incidents
from their history, as this book shows. Yet this event
involving the Cherokees has come to symbolize the
land cessions and relocations of all Indian peoples,
just as Wounded Knee, involving the Sioux, has come
to represent the numerous massacres of Indian in-
nocents (see "Sioux").
Yet before we further discuss the Trail of Tears, we'll
take a look at the Cherokee (pronounced CHAIR-uh-
key) language and culture and other important events
in their history.
When Europeans first arrived in North America, the
Cherokees occupied a large expanse of territory in the
Southeast. Their homeland included mountains and
valleys in the southern part of the Appalachian chain.
The Cherokees had villages in the Great Smoky
Mountains of western North Carolina and the Blue
Ridge of western Virginia, as well as in the Great
Valley of eastern Tennessee. They also lived in the
Appalachian high country of South Carolina and
Georgia, and as far south as northern Alabama.
In Indian studies, this region of North America is
classified within the Southeast Culture Area (see
lines to catch different kinds of fish. Another method
included poisoning an area of water to bring the un-
conscious fish to the surface.
The Cherokees were also skilled hunters. They
hunted large animals, such as deer and bear, with
bows and arrows. To get close to the deer, they wore
entire deerskins, antlers and all, and used deer calls to
lure the animals to them. The Cherokees hunted
smaller game, such as raccoons, rabbits, squirrels, and
turkeys, with blowguns made from the hollowed-out
stems of cane plants. Through these long tubes, the
hunters blew small wood-and-feather darts with
deadly accuracy from as far away as 60 feet.
The products of the hunt were also used for cloth-
ing. In warm weather, Cherokee men dressed in buck-
skin breechcloths and women in buckskin skirts. In
cold weather, men wore buckskin shirts, leggings,
and moccasins; women wore buckskin capes. Other
capes, made from turkey and eagle feathers along with
strips of bark, were used by Cherokee headmen for
ceremonial purposes. Their leaders also wore feather
headdresses on special occasions.
Ceremonies took place inside circular and domed
council houses or domed seven-sided temples. The
temples were usually located on top of flat-topped
mounds in the central village plaza, a custom inherited
from the earlier Temple Mound Builders of the
Southeast (see "Mound Builders").
"Southeast Indians"). The Cherokees spoke dialects of
the Iroquoian language, the southernmost people to
do so. Their ancestral relatives, the Iroquois, lived in
the Northeast Culture Area (see "Iroquois").
The Cherokee name for themselves in Iroquoian
was Ani-yun-wiya, meaning "real people." The name
Cherokee was probably given to them by the neighbor-
ing Creeks-tciloki in its original form, meaning
"people of the different speech."
Lifeways
The Cherokees placed their villages along rivers and
streams, where they farmed the rich black soil. Their
crops included corn, beans, squash, pumpkins,
sunflowers, and tobacco. They grew three different
kinds of corn, or maize-one to roast, one to boil, and
a third to grind into flour for cornbread. The
Cherokees also took advantage of the wild plant foods
in their homeland, including edible roots, crab apples,
berries, persimmons, cherries, grapes, hickory nuts,
walnuts, and chestnuts.
The rivers and streams also provided food for the
Cherokees. They used spears, traps, and hooks and
Cherokee families, like other people of the
Southeast, usually had two houses a large summer
home and a smaller winter home. The summer
houses, rectangular in shape with peaked roofs, had
pole frameworks, cane and clay walls, and bark or
thatch roofs. The winter houses, which doubled as
sweathouses, were placed over a pit with a cone-
shaped roof of poles and earth. Cherokee villages
were usually surrounded with walls of vertical logs or
palisades, for protection from hostile tribes.
The Cherokees practiced a variety of crafts, includ-
ing plaited basketwork and stamped pottery. They
also carved, out of wood and gourds, Booger masks,
representing evil spirits. And they shaped stone pipes
into animal figures, attached to wooden stems.
Cherokee river cane basket
Cherokee cane-stalk blowaun plus darts
438
Cherokee Booger mask. The ferm booger, from which
bogeyman comes, is African in origin, taken by the
Cherokees from the native language of black slaves.
Among the many Cherokee agricultural, hunting,
and healing rituals, the most important was the Green
Corn Ceremony. This annual celebration, shared by
other tribes of the Southeast, took place at the time of
the ripening of the last corn crop (see "Creek").
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_072.txt
Another important event for the Cherokees, shared
with other Southeast peoples, was the game of
lacrosse. This game was played between clans from
the same villages as well as between clans from dif-
ferent villages (see "Choctaw"). Chunkey, or chenco, a
game played by throwing sticks at rolling stones, was
also popular.
With regard to political and social organization, the
many Cherokee villages, about 100, were allied in a
loose confederacy. Within each village, there were two
chiefs. The White Chief, also called the Most Beloved
Man, helped the villagers make decisions concerning
farming, lawmaking, and disputes between in-
dividuals, families, or clans. He also played an im-
portant part in religious ceremonies along with the
Cherokee shamans. The Red Chief gave advice con-
cerning warfare. One such decision was choosing who
would be the War Woman, an honored woman chosen
to accompany braves on their war parties. The War
Woman did not fight, but helped feed the men, offered
them council, and decided which prisoners would live
or die. The Red Chief also was in charge of the lacrosse
games, which the Cherokees called the "little war."
From First Contact Through the Colonial Years
Early explorers to encounter the Cherokees were
impressed by their highly advanced culture.
Hernando de Soto, the Spanish explorer who traveled
throughout much of the Southeast, was the first
European to come into contact with the Cherokees,
when he arrived in their territory from the south in _
1540. In later years, occasional French traders worked
their way into Cherokee lands from the north. But the
Tribal Transformation
Still, despite these various setbacks, the Cherokees
rebuilt their lives. They learned from the settlers
around them, adopting new methods of farming and
business. They now were faithful allies of the
Americans, even fighting with them under Andrew
Jackson in the Creek War of 1813. A Cherokee chief
named Junaluska personally saved Jackson's life from
a tomahawk-swinging Creek warrior at the Battle of
Horseshoe Bend. In 1820, the Cherokees established
among themselves a republican form of government,
similar to that of the United States. In 1827, they
founded the Cherokee Nation under a constitution
with an elected principal chief, a senate, and a house
of representatives.
Much of the progress among the Cherokees resulted
from the work of a man named Sequoyah, also known
as George Gist. In 1809, he began working on a written
version of the Cherokee language so that his people
could have a written constitution, official records,
books, and newspapers like the whites around them.
Over a 12-year period, he devised a written system
that reduced the Cherokee language to 85 characters
representing all the different sounds. Sequoyah is the
only person in history to singlehandedly invent an en-
tire alphabet (or a syllabary, because the characters
represent syllables). In 1821, he finished his vast
project. In 1827, the Cherokees wrote down their con-
stitution. And in 1828, the first Cherokee newspaper,
the Cherokee Phoenix, was published in their language.
most frequent Cherokee-white contacts were with En- The Trail of Tears
glish traders from the east. The traders began appear-
ing regularly after England permanently settled
Virginia, starting with the Jamestown colony of 1607
and then, before long, the Carolina colonies.
In the French and Indian Wars, lasting from 1689 to
1763, the Cherokees generally sided with the English
against the French, providing warriors for certain en-
gagements. In these conflicts, they sometimes found
themselves fighting side by side with other Indian
tribes who had been their traditional enemies, such as
the Iroquois.
In 1760, however, the Cherokees revolted against
their English allies in the Cherokee War. The
precipitating incident involved a dispute over wild
horses in what is now West Virginia. A group of
Cherokees on their journey home from the Ohio
River, where they had helped the English take Fort
Duquesne, captured some wild horses. Some Virginia
frontiersmen claimed the horses as their own and
attacked the Cherokees, killing 12. Then they sold the
horses and collected bounties on the Cherokee scalps,
which they claimed they had taken from Indians allied
to the French.
On learning of this incident, various Cherokee
bands, led by Chief Oconostota, began a series of raids
on white settlements. The Cherokees also managed to
capture Fort Loudon in the Great Valley of the
Appalachians. The war lasted two years, before the
British troops defeated the Cherokees by burning their
villages and crops. Even then, the insurgents con-
tinued to fight from their mountain hideouts for a
period of time. Eventually, war-weary and half-
starving, the Cherokees surrendered. In the peace
pact, the Cherokees were forced to give up a large por-
tion of their eastern lands lying closest to British set-
tlements.
In spite of the Cherokee War, the Cherokees
supported the English against the rebels in the
American Revolution of 1775-83. Most of their support
consisted of sporadic attacks on outlying American
settlements. In retaliation, North Carolina militiamen
invaded the Cherokees' territory and again destroyed
villages and demanded land cessions.
During the colonial years, the Cherokees also suf-
fered from a number of epidemics. The worst
outbreaks from the dreaded smallpox that killed so
many native peoples-occurred in 1738 and 1750.
Yet, despite the new Cherokee way of life, the set-
tlers wanted the Indians' lands. The discovery of gold
near Dahlonega, Georgia, helped influence white
officials to call for the relocation of the Cherokees,
along with other eastern Indians. In 1830, President
Andrew Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act to
relocate the eastern tribes to an Indian Territory west
of the Mississippi River.
Despite the fact that the principal chief of the
Cherokees, the great orator John Ross, passionately
argued and won the Cherokee case before the
Supreme Court of the United States; despite the fact
that Junaluska, who had saved Jackson's life,
personally pleaded with the president for his people's
land; despite the fact that such great Americans as
Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, and Davy Crockett
supported the Cherokee claims; still, President Jack-
son ordered the Indians' removal. And so began the
Trail of Tears.
The state of Georgia began forcing the Cherokees to
sell their lands for next to nothing. Cherokee homes
and possessions were plundered. Whites destroyed
the printing press of the Cherokee Phoenix because it
published articles opposing Indian removal. Soldiers
began rounding up Cherokee families and taking
them to internment camps in preparation for the
journey westward. With little food and unsanitary
conditions at these hastily built stockades, many
Cherokees died. In the meantime, some Cherokees es-
caped to the mountains of North Carolina, where they
successfully hid out from the troops.
The first forced trek westward began in the spring of
1838 and lasted into the summer. On the 800-mile trip,
the Cherokees suffered because of the intense heat.
The second mass exodus took place in the fall and win-
ter of 1838-39 during the rainy season; the wagons
bogged down in the mud, and then there were
freezing temperatures and snow. On both journeys,
many Indians died from disease and inadequate food
and blankets. The soldiers drove their prisoners on at a
cruel pace, not even allowing them to properly bury
their dead. Nor did they protect the Cherokees from
attacks by bandits.
During the period of confinement, plus the two
separate trips, about 4,000 Cherokees died, almost a
439
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_073.txt
quarter of their total. More Cherokees died after
arrival in the Indian Territory because of epidemics
and continuing shortages of food. During the 1830s,
other Southeast tribes endured similar experiences,
including the Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks, and
Seminoles (see entries for those tribes). This was a
shameful time in American history.
The Indian Territory
Nor was the injustice enacted upon the Cherokees
and other tribes of the Indian Territory over. The In-
dian Territory was supposed to be a permanent home-
land for various tribes. Originally, the promised
region stretched from the state boundaries of
Arkansas, Missouri, and Iowa to the 100th meridian,
about 300 miles at the widest point. Nonetheless, with
increasing white settlement west of the Mississippi in
the mid-1800s, the Indian Territory was reduced again
and again.
In 1854, by an act of Congress, the northern part of
the Indian Territory became the territories of Kansas
and Nebraska, which later became states. Then, start-
ing in 1866 after the Civil War, tribes living in those
regions were resettled on lands to the south,
supposedly reserved for the Southeast tribes, now
known as the Five Civilized Tribes.
During the 1880s, the Boomers arrived-white
home-seekers squatting on Indian reservations.
Various white interests-railroad and bank ex-
ecutives, plus other developers lobbied Congress for
the opening of more Indian lands to white settlement.
Assimilation and Allotment
In 1887, Congress passed the General Allotment Act
(or the Dawes Severalty Act). Under this law, certain
Indian reservations held by tribes were to be divided
and allotted to heads of Indian families. Some
politicians believed that the law would help Indians by
motivating individuals to develop the land. They also
believed it would bring about the assimilation of In-
dians into the mainstream American culture. But
others were just interested in obtaining Indian lands,
since it was much easier to take advantage of in-
dividuals than of whole tribes. Many of the same
people advocated stamping out Indian culture and
religion and sending Indian children to white-run
boarding schools. This period in United States Indian
policy is called the Assimilation and Allotment period.
Cherokee Eagle Dancers
By 1889, two million acres had been bought from the
Indians, usually at ridiculously low prices, and
thrown open to white settlement. The Oklahoma
Land Run took place that year, with settlers lining up
at a starting point to race for choice pieces. Those who
cheated and entered the lands open for settlement
were called "sooners." In 1890, Oklahoma Territory
was formed from these lands.
were taken. Oklahoma, all of which had once been In-
dian land, became a state in 1907.
During this period, in 1924, the federal government
passed the Citizenship Act, conferring citizenship on
Native Americans. Two states-Arizona and New
Mexico delayed giving Indians voting rights until
much later.
Restoration and Reorganization
Cherokee and Choctaw leaders refused allotment
and took their case to federal courts, as John Ross had
done years before. In reaction, Congress passed the 440
Curtis Act of 1898, which dissolved their tribal govern-
ments and extended land allotment policy to them
against their wishes. Piece by piece, the Indian lands
In 1934, with the Indian Reorganization Act (or the
Wheeler-Howard Act), the policies of Assimilation
and Allotment ended. This was the start of the Tribal
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_074.txt
Restoration and Reorganization period, sponsored by
President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, John Collier. The
Cherokees and other native peoples all over North
America began to rediscover their cultural heritage,
which the assimilationists had tried to take away, and
to reorganize their tribal leadership into vital and
effective governing bodies.
Yet, unfortunately, those tribes who underwent
allotment never regained the lands given to whites.
Remaining Indian lands in Oklahoma are not called
reservations, as most tribally held pieces are in other
states. In Oklahoma, they are called Indian trust areas.
Some are tribally owned and some are allotted to
families or individuals. Yet, by an act of Congress in
1936, the lands are protected as reservations from
outside speculators.
Termination and Urbanization
The federal government went through other phases -
in its policy toward Indians. In the 1950s, some
politicians sought to end the special protective
relationship between the government and Indian
tribes (see "Menominee"). Indians in Oklahoma and
elsewhere were encouraged to move to cities in order
to join the economic mainstream.
Self-Determination t
Termination as a policy failed. The Cherokees and
other tribes knew that their best hope for a good life in
modern times was tribal unity and cultural renewal as
called for in the earlier policy of Restoration and
Reorganization. Since the 1960s, the federal Indian
policy has been one of tribal self-determination, which
means Indian self-government and strong tribal
identity.
Cherokee tribal headquarters in the West is located
in Tahlequah, Oklahoma. Some of the western
Cherokees have made money from oil and other
minerals found on their lands. There is a pageant for
tourists every summer with dancers, musicians, and
actors. The pageant is called The Trail of Tears. A fa-
mous American humorist by the name of Will Rogers
was a Western Cherokee. He gained a wide audience
in the 1920s and 1930s through radio, movies, books,
and newspapers. He was called the "cowboy
philosopher."
There are still Cherokees in the East too, in North
Carolina. Descendants of those who hid out in the
mountains during the relocation period still live there.
They presently hold rights to the picturesque
Cherokee Reservation in the Great Smoky Mountains
in the western part of the state. There, the Cherokees
have a factory where they make crafts sold in stores all
over North America, as well as a lumber business, and
motels and shops for tourists. The Cherokees lease
some of these businesses to whites. At the reservation_
in North Carolina, visitors can watch the annual
pageant of the eastern Cherokees called Unto These
Hills. Participants perform many dances, including
the stunning Eagle Dance, passed down through the
centuries among many generations of Cherokees. The
dancers, wearing colorful costumes, move in swoop-
ing circular patterns, like birds in flight. The feathered
eagle wands they wave are symbols of peace.
Yuchi
The Yuchis (pronounced YOO-chee) spoke a unique
dialect, usually referred to simply as Yuchi. When
scholars cannot find sounds or words in a native
language resembling elements in other languages,
they have a difficult time tracing the ancestry and
:
peoples and settled in the Southeast. They lived near
the Catawba Indians, another eastern Siouan people
(see "Catawba").
The earliest known location of the Yuchis was in
what is now eastern Tennessee. But, after that early
period, the Yuchis came to live in territory now part of
many different states, including Georgia, Florida, and
South Carolina. Scholars classify the Yuchis within the
Southeast Culture Area (see "Southeast Indians").
That is to say, they were Woodland Indians who built
villages and planted crops along river valleys. They
lived by farming, hunting, fishing, and collecting wild
plant foods.
The known history of the Yuchis begins with
Hernando de Soto's expedition of 1539-43 that.ex-
plored much of the Southeast and encountered many
Indian peoples. Other Spaniards mention various
bands of Yuchis under different names in their histori-
cal accounts. A Spaniard by the name of Boyano under
the explorer Juan Pardo claimed to have battled and
killed many Yuchis on two different occasions in the
mountains of either North Carolina or Tennessee.
Because the explorers' maps were inexact, it is difficult
to pinpoint the locations.
In the 1630s, various Yuchi bands swept south out of
the Appalachian highlands to raid Spanish set-
tlements and missions in Florida. Some of these
Yuchis settled in what was then called West Florida, in
Apalachee country
ancient history of a tribe. Until recently, this was the
case with the Yuchis. Now it is thought that the Yuchi
dialect has some elements in common with dialects of
the Siouan language family. Therefore, the Yuchis
probably long ago split off from other Siouan-speaking
Yuchi Feather Dance wand
In the 1670s, various Englishmen, exploring
southwestward out of Virginia and the Carolinas,
made contact with Yuchis still in Tennessee and North
Carolina. In the following years, many Yuchi bands,
probably because of pressure from hostile Shawnees,
migrated from the high country, following the
Savannah River toward the coastal country in Georgia.
The Yuchis who had previously gone to Florida also
migrated to Georgia. Both groups of Yuchis became
allies of the English colonists and helped them in slave
raids on mission Indians of Spanish Florida, including
the Apalachees, Calusas, and Timucuas (see those
tribes).
By the mid-1700s, the Spanish military and mission
systems in Florida were weakened. From that period
into the 1800s, many Yuchis migrated southward and
settled on lands formerly held by other tribes.
The Yuchis eventually lost their tribal identity.
Those who stayed in Tennessee and North Carolina
merged with the Cherokees; those who settled in
Georgia joined the Creeks; and those who migrated to
Florida united with the Seminoles.'
441
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_075.txt
USBAND'S
When Born
NAME
NATHANIEL TAYLOR MCNABB
February 5, 1783 (or 25th) Where
Christened
When Died
After 1840 Census
When Burled
When Married January 20, 1805
City)
BIDDER (1045.
m
Where
Where
Where
Where
Washington Cty, Tennessee
Cleveland, Bradley Cty, Tenn.
Carter Cty, Tenn Marriage recorded
Carter Cty. Tenn. Marriage Record Book 18-18, p 167, Jan. 20, 1805, File 24. A.P.
His Father Captain David McNabb, Sr. His Mother's Maiden Name Elizabeth TAYLOR//Willams, J.P.
A.
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Ellender/McCubbins
When Born
1784
Where
xxx Was blind in 1850 Census
When Died After 1860 Census
XOXX
When Buried
Where
Where
Olber Husb. (I any)
Number (1) (2) Lc..
Her Father Captain Zachariah McCubbins
Le
CHILDREN
(Arrange in order of birth)
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Civil Records Carter Cty Tenn; DAR applications; Family &
Church records; and Paddock, Capt. B.B. (ed) A 20TH CENTURY HISTORY AND BIO-
GRAPHICAL RECORD OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS Vol. 2, Lewis Publishing Co., 1906,
Chicago, pages 677,678,& 679.
1830 Carter Cty Tennessee Census, page 14, line 8 enumerates Nathaniel
McNabb and line 12 shows, probably, his mother Elizabeth McNabb, age 70, the
widow of Capt. David McNabb. 1840 Carter Cty Tennessee Census, page 182, 181
line 11 enumerates Nathaniel McNabb, who died before the 1850 Census;
however, the 1850 Bradley Cty Tennessee Census on page 343, line 42 and
page 344 lines 1-6 lists James Pinckney McNabb with his family and then on
lines 11-19, Alfred W. McNabb is listed with his family, of which line 19
lists Ellender McNabb, mother of James P. and Alfred W. and widow, age 66, of
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb. Ellender McCubbins McNabb was the daughter of Capt.
Virginia or Carter Cty, Tenn. (There is
some evidence for Guilford Cty, No. Car. Zachariah McCubbins b. April 15, 1752 in Baltimore Cty Maryland, d. Oct 24,
.1834 Claiborne Cty, Tenn. On Dec 6. 1772 he married Sarah Lane b. Feb 2,1754
Cleveland, Bradley Cty, Tenn.
Her Mother's Maiden Name Sarah Lane
Country
State or
Country
WHEN DIED
DAY
"
11
Month
Date
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Bradley Cty
1 Date
To
Married
Date 1834-Carter Cty, Tenn
To Susanah A. Ramsey, b. 1816
in Virginia. d. Dec 1902
in Bradley Cty, Tenn.
Date Nov 13, 1836 Bradley Cty
Lunenburg Cty, Virginia and died in Indiana
after 1834. They are buried in Old Irish
Cemetery, Tazewell, Claiborne Cty, Tenn.
Captain Zachariah McCubbins' service in the
Revolutionary War was in the Baltimore Town
Battlion, Annapolis, Maryland May 27,1776.
Vol 11, page 449, Archives of Maryland and
Muster Rolls and other records May 2216
28 June1893 T. Easter Flenniken Dearmond
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Place
Female
F
1
(not proven)
1807
M
2 Alfred W.
1809
Carter Cty,
Tenn ??1858
F
3 (probably died young)
1812
M
4 James Pinckney**
9 Feb. 1814
"
M
5 Nathaniel T.
7 July 1818
"
"
"
F
Louisa
1819
"
"
"
6
"
1823
"
"
1825
1827
7 Lorina
F
M
8
Armstrong C. (Doctor)
M
Fode
"
1897
1. Serenia C. McInturff 2.Lize
27
of service of Maryland Troops in
the American Revolution 1775-1783.
Baltimore, Maryland Historical
Society, 1900, p 52. In Archives
Records
Cath Walls 3.Nancy Caroline Walls. of Maryland, Hall of
Date Oct 19, 1837
Francis M. Cooper
То
Date
Nov 2, 1841
Το
Thomas. Stanley
1861
Date
"
То
"
**James Pinckney McNabb died 28 June 1893 and was buried at Timber Ridge
10 Cemetery, Marshfield, Webster Cty, Missouri. He was blind in 1960 Census of 1870.
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb sold land in 1844 in Carter Cty, Tenn and moved to
11 Bradley Cty, Tenn. Deed to Nathaniel T. November 1814, Claiborne Cty, Tenn.
12
Naomia Henry.
Date SARAH's Parents were
To John Fuller Lane 6.1.7.27
Date 2, 1785-w. Elizabeth (Cloud)
TO LANE day of ISAAC Cloud.
mn of
Date John Elizabeth Lane
m. in 1746 in Baltimore,
Date md. They died in Springdale
To
TC. Kemenes
Library
#3086; 350 Rowe Blvd.,
Annapolis, Maryland 21401.
McCubbins' burial
Record
Z
on page 171, Cemeteries in
Claiborne County, Tenn.
Historical Society,
Claiborne Cty
Tazewell, Tenn. P.O. Bot 32
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_076.txt
Marriage Record of Nathaniel Taylor McNabb, born Feb. 5, 1783, Washington County, Tenn
То Ellender McCubbins (Incorrectly spelled her name as McCubber) born 1784. They lived
in Carter County from their marriage in Jan. 20, 1805 until they sold their land in 1844
and moved to Cleveland, Bradley County, Tenn., where he died before 1850 and she died
after the 1860 census.
Recorded Book 18-18, page 167, Carter County Clerk, Elizabethton, Tennessee 37643.
CARTER COUNTY, TENN.
167
DATE
FILE
NAMES
DATE AND BY WHOM MARRIED
Jon 19
Nathaniel McNach Jan
1805 74 Ellender McCur
Jug it
185574
Jon No
keben
201805
P. P. William
Br. J. P. July 12.1855
20
Erzella Jove Hyder John Snodgrass
Agriah Morgon may 28 1849
20
1849 74. Elzabeth Mitchel
Aug 1-
20
18747
Oct 8
1868 ж
Feb 27
187774
Oct 17
J. N. Meginis
7
F. Jigar
aug m. 187x
Ellen
Marah an Parter Dlls.
M.S.
James & Matson Oct. 11-1868
る
Mary J Oreholser
д
Zo
mich Campbell
800
Thomas @murry Feb 27.1897
Кесли са дому дових Вашения
a
Abrabom moser Oct. 18.1868
20
1868 24 Lara Run
Mch 23
15024 2330
Mchiz
186674
Mar 7
1865-70
aug. 21
186170
21 maplen
Thomas Morarity Mch 231857
2
Telzer Bishop
J. B. Emert
John S. Marrell med 12 1866
Evely Floyd
R Ellio
40 do
mr
25 1866
.
James Miller Jan
Elza Jam Whitehead Jacob finely
Fulding of cork Aug 23-
Edabu Walker
23-1861
Jalentine Bowers
Jeremiah B. Miller med 24 1867
20
Much 73
OP Jackson
1867 74 Emeline Joke 443
भइ
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_077.txt
--
t
and
This indenture made and interex into this
Eleventh day of February sinhteen hundred
Twenty six by and between David M.Walk sent cé
the bounty of Carter, and State of Bennies of the
art and Nathaniel Meble of the Count
and state adores aid of the other part- is as goli...
Touit for the Love and affection the said David
for
his son i Fathaniel M. Nabe, this day de give
-Convey and maked over all that part or parcel of land
Situated on the waters of Bufelow creek as
aforis and Nathaniels interest in and to my
investing him with the same-
follows Begining
Shas
Eastate now
Bounded as
State called a
him the
Landed.
1.
a Beach and
a thake in
.dogwood
on the west side of Bugalow Creek Ranin
Lown the creek with the meanders thereof north
twenty five degree East, thirteen potes to
-the crack thence moith fifty degrees west one file to
White Walnut on the original themes.
with the original line north twenty degrees Wist..
- twenty poles to a Take called a whitsoaked in
-The original Thoned with the original line mouth
degrees. East Ten poles to a whilia and The
iginal Borner thence with the original line month
Fifty degrees west eighty eight poles to a dogu
and Powerwood pointer. Thened south liventy
degrees west Seventy three protesta a stake and.
-pointers thence south thirty four degrees and think
minutes east to the begining. brutaming thirty – (we
- racies which Land with tail and
afierten an
there unto belonging or
apertaining
To be
anch
ifery
of the..
any
Bemlin the lawful! right-
of Nathaniel Mortable and heirs from one mny
and from all and
in serve.
-
hier.
.-
220
other person what
Lawfully Claimsing the same
Shunt and intestasible light of inheritance in fu
Sinipted in evilmips whockey & have harrunte part
my hand and seal the day
initop in the
guit
David McNabbi
A. Taylor
Jough Sarland.
David McNabb to his son
11 Feb 1826 Nathaniel Taylor McNabb
and Thousand
Gaiter 6
Cove
there was the foregoing died Exhibited and schweigen
in open count by the hishei thereof and shanitie
Itale
the nothin
and with th
coder bunty-cortificats were study Wigatorse
the the 25th day 14 July 1827.
25 dig of July
CARTER
Co. Tenn
444
1827
Regt of Clients
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_078.txt
HALL OF RECORDS
3086
BRARY
L/BRARY
ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND
ARCHIVES OF MARYLAND
Record of
the father of
Ellender M. Cubbons, wife of
Nathaniel Taylor (<)lott
MUSTER ROLLS
AND
OTHER RECORDS OF SERVICE
or
MARYLAND TROOPS
IN THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION
1775-1783
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE, UNDER THE DIRECTION
OF THE MARYLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY:
BALTIMORE
MARYLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY
1900
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_079.txt
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Early and Independent Companies
Flying Camp Papers
PAGE
4
29
Volume I of "Musters of Maryland Troops." (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th
and Rawlings' Rgts.)
Volume II of "Musters of Maryland Troops." (5th, 6th, 7th and
German Regiment.)
Supplementary German Regiment Papers
Volume III "Musters of Maryland Troops." (Names left out.)
Miscellaneous Maryland Line Papers
a. Muster and Pay Rolls for 1780
76
181
. 261
•
273
.
293
•
332
"
"
"
"
"
་་ .
"
"
Artillery Rolls
C.
d.
"1783
e. Depreciation Certificates stopped 1784
f. Pay-roll of 1786
Rolls of Maryland Men in Lee's Dragoons
"Pulaski's and Armand's Legions
b.
"
"
"
"
"
1781
"
"
"
"
"
1782
361
414
476
514
518
563
.
585
..591
"
"
"
"
Maryland
Miscellaneous Naval Rolls
Rolls of Escaped and Exchanged Prisoners
Return of Invalids
Appendix
Index
" various other corps not belonging to
•
596
606
616
.
618
637
663
446
20
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_080.txt
52
Records of Maryland Troops in the Continental Service
BALTIMORE COUNTY.
Capt. Zachariah Maccubbin
I Lt. Thomas Yates, promoted
to a Captaincy and John Christie ap-
pointed 1 Lt. by the Council of Safety,
August 5th, 1776
2 Lt. John Christie, promoted I
Lt. and Thomas Lingan appointed 2
Lt. by the Council of Safety.
Ensign Thomas Lingan, promoted
2 Lt. and William Wilmot appointed
Ensign by the Council of Safety.
Capt. John E. Howard
.
1 Lt. Thomas Lansdale
2 Lt. William Riley
Ensign Robert Morrow
Capt. James Young
I Lt. James Bond
2 Lt. John Smith
Ensign James Toole
Capt. John Stevenson, resigned and
Thomas Yates appointed Capt.
I Lt. Edward Oldham
2 Lt. James Ogleby
Ensign Joseph Lewis *
Enlisted by Zachariah Maccubin. Reviewed and passed by Thos.
Jones, July 20th, 1776.
Joseph Britten,
Basil Geoghegan
John Phinnimore
John Coale
Thomas Robinson
John Cooke
Thomas McDaniel
Edward Puntany
Isaac Hall
Charles Griffen, (Griffin)
William Dunsyre
John Oaram
Henry Young
Michael Carnee
Hugh Lynch
Thomas Cummins
:
William Limebarker
Mathew Skiffington
John Thompson
Luke West
Mathew Moore
George Bailey
Joseph Weston
Christopher Fells
Bartholomew Donohue
Hugh Paulton
James Howard
James Griffith
Thomas Griffen, (Griffin) Jacob Wilderman
Enlisted by John Christie. Passed by Thos. Jones, July 25th, 1776.
John Tuder
Thomas Fox
John White
Edward Kersey
Charles Burnett
George Price
Michael Martin
Thomas Kenny
Benjamin Quine
Peter Millar
Joshua Bond
Lewis Wise
Roberson Wood
Edward Smith
Thomas Mahany
William Bailey
Francis Ward
John Lennox
Benjamin Furlong
Nathan Biggs
Enlisted by William Wilmott. Passed by John Cradock, August
14th, 1776.
Edward Chenoweth
George Allen
Edward Traisey
William Harriman
James Lawrence
Henry Middleton
Jacob Knight
Joseph Welch, (Welsh)
Hugh Gainer
Charles Kelley
Richard Cole, (Coale)
Thomas Chenoweth
Daniel McIntire
John Hosel
Edward Parrish
Richard Hood
⚫ John Hood
Proceedings of the Conventions of Maryland, p. 177.
447
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_081.txt
BONE
VOLUNTATIS
ᎤᎫᎪ Ꮪ
1632
TVA
ORONASTI
No 4423
The State of Maryland
State Archives
Hall of Records Commission
State of Maryland, Sd:
پھر
Edward C. Papenfuse
Archivist of the State of
Maryland at the State Archives in Annapolis, Maryland, do
hereby certify that the aforegoing is a true and accurate copy of
Archives of Maryland, volume XI, pp. 448-449
which is preserved in the files of the said State Archives.
448
SA 86
4th
As witness my hand and the seal of
the said Hall of Records Commission
of the State of Maryland this day
of Jan., 19 89, as authorized by
section 9-1009, State Government
Article of the Annotated Code of
Maryland, 1984 edition, as amended
to date.
Archivist of the State of Maryland.
T45024
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_082.txt
ARCHIVES OF MARYLAND
JOURNAL
OF THE
MARYLAND CONVENTION
JULY 26-AUGUST 14, 1775
JOURNAL AND CORRESPONDENCE
OF THE
MARYLAND COUNCIL OF SAFETY
AUGUST 29, 1775-JULY 6, 1776
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE, UNDER THE DIRECTION
OF THE MARYLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY
WILLIAM HAND BROWNE
Editor
BALTIMORE
MARYLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY
1892
449
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_083.txt
448
Journal and Correspondence
c. S. c. as your presence is necessary, your attendance in Council is
therefore immediately requested.
No. 1.
Original.
28th May 1776
[Council to Worcester Committee.]
To the Committee of Observation for Worcester County.
Gent"
The Bearer hereof Mr John Galloway is with some other
Gentlemen in partnership about setting up & carrying on a
Salt Work under the encouragement of the Last Convention,
He is in great measure unacquainted in your County, and as
the work will be of the Greatest Public utility, we take the
liberty of recommending him to your notice and countenance,
and shall be much obliged to you for any assistance you may
give him, or any Favors you will be pleased to confer upon
him.
30th May 1776
[Purviance to Council.]
In Comm Baltimore 27. May 1776.
Gentlemen. Capt" John Sterrets Company of Militia being
appointed an Independent Company, and Cap' George Wells
comp' consisting chiefly of ship carpenters employed in working
on the continental frigate having petitioned to be formed into
an artillery Comp' which we presume will be granted. We
think proper to add to the Baltimore Town Battalion, Capt"
Thomas Rutters and Capt" Fred Deams's companys of Militia
as the most convenient to join the same, and their situation is
such that they cannot with propriety join any other Battalion.
By order of the Comme
Frederick Deams Capt"
Absolom Price 1st Lieutenant
George Campble 2d Ditto
John Demmit Ensign
Sam' Purviance Jun' chair"
& 79 Privates:
N. B. Capt Rutter has already
recd Commissions for himself
& his officers.
To the Council of Safety to Md
[Return of Baltimore County Militia.]
These are to certify to the Honorable Council of Safety
that the following returns have been made to this committee
of Companies of Militia in Baltimore County, viz'
450
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_084.txt
Council is
1 Company conts 76 who have elected Wm Buchanan Capt
John Smith I Lieut
Robt Alexander 2 Lieut
Geo. Woolsey Ensign
John Sterrett Capt
in Balto.
Town.
Bennet Eichelberger 1st Lieut in Balto.
Hugh Young 2d Lieut
1 Company conts 82
Dan Bowley Ensign
1 Company
65
Henry Sheap Capt
1 Company
58
Town.
Brittingham Dickenson 1st Lieut in Balto.
Robt Moore
Caleb Shields, Ensign
Wm Galbraith Capt
James Toole 1 Lieut
John Deaver 2d Lieut
Joseph Gehe Ensign
1 Company
71
Wm Richardson Capt
John McCabe 1st Lieut
2d
in Balto.
Town.
Town
in Balto.
George Sewel Douglas 2d Liet Town.
⚫ County.
some other
rrying on a
Convention,
nty, and as
we take the
ountenance,
ce you may
confer upon
1 Company
66
Artillery
Fergus McIlroy Ensign
George Wells Capt
James Morgan 1st Lieut
John Hayman 2d Lieut
in Balto
Town.
James Foster 3d Lieut
The above companies together with Cap' Zach McCubbin &
Cap James Cox who have recd commissions we recommend to
be formed into a Battalion.
We are Gent your most hum' Servt'
Will Lux Dep' ch
W Buchanan
May 1776.
Militia being
corge Wells
in working
formed into
anted. We
alion, Capt
ys of Militia
situation is
r Battalion.
mmee
un' chair
has already
for himself
l of Safety
committee
Tho Sollers.
Will Aisquith
Thomas Harrison
Jn Boyd
John E. Howard
Jn° Sterett
Ja Calhoun.
Tuesday 28th May 1776.
Jn° Smith
Met according to Adjournment. Present as yesterday, and
also the Honble George Plater Esq' who was qualified before
M Hall by taking the Oath prescribed by the Convention.
Ordered That Letters be immediately sent to the several
absent Members respectively requesting their attendance in
Council, which was done accordingly.
The Honble Charles Carroll Esq. was appointed Vice-presi-
dent of the Council.
Ordered That M Plater be requested immediately to have
a Chart of Smith's Creek in St Mary's County made, with the
Soundings into the River, and the Altitude of the Banks on
each side of said Creek.
Adjourned till 3 O'Clock and met accordingly.
M Plater has Leave of Absence.
Mr Richard Barnes was appointed in the Room of M* Plater
to join with Brigadier General Dent in erecting Beacons on
the River Patowmack.
Adjourned till next Day 10 O'Clock
C. S. J.
451
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_085.txt
See next page for Zachariah McCubbins.
282
HISTORY OF PITTSYLVANIA COUNTY
A List of Tithables Taken by Hamon Critz, Gent., for the Year 1767
Thomas Walling.
William Hays.
Cillis Ratlift.
Arch'l Hughes.
Geo. Allan.
Henry France.
David Gowing.
Nicholas Langford.
James Fee.
Geo. Poor.
Robe Crump, Junr.
Robt Crump, Senr.
Frederick Fulkerson.
Alex Deputy.
Adam Loving.
William Loving.
Joseph Cameron.
John Pluk.
Zacheriah Cook.
Thos. Harbour.
David Witt.
Paletiah Shelton.
Geo. Gibson.
John Wildrich Bender.
John Parr.
William Denson.
William Tirpin.
Geo. Gray.
William Harrald.
John Jinings.
Peter Rentfro.
John Koger.
John France.
John Camron.
David Lyles.
Miles Jinings.
Lambath Dodson.
Phillip Buzzard.
Thom. Murry.
Solomon Smith.
John Spain.
John Gooch.
James Pritchard.
Haman Critz.
A List of Tithables Taken for Pittsylvania in 1767 by John Dix.
John Armstrong Annica.
Thomas Ayers.
Daniel Ayers.
Moses Ayers.
John Bynum.
Arthur Bynum.
Lawrence Barker.
William Barker.
Edward Burges.
John Bynam, Jr.
Moses Cornelius.
Thomas Colley.
William Cornelius.
William Colley.
John Chipman, Constable.
James Collie.
Thomas Dudley.
Henry Dixon, Jas. Durough, Jas. Borough.
John Dix, Ephraim Dismunkes, James
Evalto, Will, Joe, Minkes, Ben, Lett,
Old Janney & Janney and I chair, deduct
2 tithes being ferrymen.
William Durrett, Peter.
Edward Floyde.
Lewis Green, William Green.
John Hamilton.
Samuel Harris, Bob, Honeyball, York,
Pompey, Janney, Sally Lucy.
James Hogan, William Hogan.
John Hensley.
Thomas Pistole.
Samuel Pruett.
Hugh Mahone.
John McClane.
Thomas Merriwether, William Meri
wether, Jason Bowcock, Paul, Frank
Southsea, Betty, Nann, Hannah, Nann
Nedd, Sue, Judy, Creshea, Joe, Paul,
Jacob, Cate, Peter & Judy.
HISTORY OF PITTSYLVANIA COUNTY
William McDaniel, Tom, Dick, Daniel,
Lovoney, Milley, Liddy & Janney.
Daniel Ober.
William Owen.
- John Roberts, Jas. Roberts & Jas. Roberts,
Jr.
Gabriel Richards.
David Ross.
Geo. Sutherland.
John Southerland.
Jacob Stillwell.
Philip Southerland.
John Stamps.
Timothy Stamps.
James Terry.
William Travis.
William Thomas, Arthur & Janny.
William Tredwell.
283
William Wynne, Prince, Peter, Nedd,
Cale & Judy.
Thomas Wynne & Lucy.
Robert Wright.
William Wynne, jr., Saunders Southerland
& Prince.
John Worsham & Sirus.
Joshua Worsham, Will, Frank, Abram,
Lucy, Judy & Pegg.
Robert Wynne.
Thomas Wynne, jr.
John Wheler.
List of Tithables Taken by Peter Perkins for the year 1767
George Chadwell, land.
Dutton Lain, tith, land.
David Terrill, land.
Edward Sweeton, tithe.
Jehu Morton, tithe, land.
James Burnett, tithe.
Davie Fields, tithe.
George Russell, land.
George Young, I negro woman, 1 land.
Christopher Bowlin, son William.
Joseph Bowlin, 1 tithe.
James Bowlin, I tithe.
Ephram McGoff.
George Thompson.
Richard Churchwell, tithe.
John Rich, tithe.
Conoway, I tithe.
Archibald Thompson
Rodden Thompson.
Randolph Gipson, tithe, negro Bomber,
land.
Thomas Calaway, sons Charles and Rich-
ard's land.
John Court & Son-in-law Jas. Coursey
Peterson.
John Frederick Richel, I tithe, land.
William Rice Sadler.
Patrick Still, I tithe.
Thomas Smith, son Thomas, land.
Edward Smith, negro Will, land.
John Fulton, I tithe, land.
John Smith, negro Dinah, land.
Henry Lansford, negro Judy, land.
Ralph Elkins, Jun.
Richard Elkins, I tithe.
Nathaniel Elkins, son Jessey.
John Rukey, son James.
Thom. Gresham.
Christopher Bowling, Jun.
John Gresham son of Phil Gresham.
Edward Perogog, tithe.
James Elkin on leather wood.
Samuel Shields, land.
John Gresham son of Thom Gresham.
Jesse Elkins, I tithe.
John Cox.
John Givins.
William Shields.
George Button.
Henry Burnett.
Thom. Cunningham, Jun.
James Shields, tithe, land.
James Strong.
Benjamine Croley, negro Peter, land.
Thomas Strong.
Charles Oaks, tithe.
Benjamine Croly, I tithe land.
John Strong, Joseph Martin.
452
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_086.txt
Ellender McCubbins McNabb, wife of
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb was the
dau of Capt Zachariah McCubbins,
who married Sarah Lane dau of
John Fuller Lane b 1727 a 1785
Springdale, Claiborne Co. NC/Tn,
who married Elizabeth Cloud dau
of Isaac Cloud in 1746, Baltimore,
Md.
284
HISTORY OF PITTSYLVANIA COUNTY
Jeremiah Walker, negro.
Joseph Cunningham, 1 tithe, land.
Joseph Morton, 1 tithe, negro Dinah Land.
Abraham Passley, I tithe.
Martain Dunkin.
John Scags.
Thom. Bullock.
Richard Bullock.
John Lankford, 1 tithe, land.
Joseph Cotton.
James Presnall son James, negro Jane.
George Hide, I tithe.
Owen Wait.
Joel Certain, 1 tithe.
Shadrack Turner sons John & Josiah.
Thomas Watson, I tithe, land.
John Watson, Jun., land.
James Gravely, Jun'r.
John Watson, sen tithe & land.
Capt. Zachariah McCubbins b April James Edwards, I tithe, land.
15, 1752, Baltimore Co Md d Oct
24, 1834 Claiborne Co Tenn. On
Dec 6, 1772 he married Sarah Lane
b Feb 2, 1754 Lunenburg Co VA d.
after 1834. They are buried in
OLD IRISH Cemetery, Tazewell,
Claiborne Co Tenn. Capt Zachariah
McCubbins service in the Revolu-
tionary War was in the Baltimore
Town Battlion, Annapolis, Md May
27, 1776,Vol X1 page 448-449.
Archives of Maryland (M 2723) and
Muster Rolls and Other Records of
Service of Maryland Troops in the James Garner, 1 tithe.
American Revolution 1775-1783.
Baltimore, Md Historical Society,
1900, p 52. In Archives of Md,
Hall of Records Library #3086;
Archives Bldg, 350 Rowe Blvd.,
Annapolis, Md 21401. Record of
McCubbins' burial on page 171,
Cemeteries in Claiborne Co. Tenn
Claiborne Co Historical Society
P.O. Box 32, Tazewell, Tenn.
Some of Capt McCubbins
descendents lived in Burke Co
and Guilford Co North Carolina.
John Warring.
Thom. Gravely.
Thomas Garner, 1 tithe.
Thomas Horgeth, tithes.
John Morton Tithes Negroes dogery &
seftis.
Arthur Fuller.
Daniel Hankins negroes frank, Nan
patt and land.
Nicholas Perkins I tithe negro moll.
Joseph Harris.
David Harris.
John Harris, Constable.
Benjamine Neal, Constable.'
John Roach, I tithe.
John Oaks.
John Rice.
Henry Dunlop.
John Gwin.
John Sams.
William Bean & son Wm., land.
John Hardiman son Thomas, land.
Constant Perkins negro Jacob.
John Chadwell negro Farmer & Tiller,
land.
Zacheriah McCubbins.
John Been, Jun.
John Jones, I tithe, land.
John Join, land.
William Edwards son Thom., land.
Robt. Perriman.
Thomas Billings.
William Murphy.
Thom. Edwards, negro Andrew, land.
William McCubbin.
Henry Rice, land.
Nathan Carter.
A List of Land and Tithes Taken by Hugh Innes for Pittsylvania County
Samuel Collins.
Rowland Judd & Nathaniel Judd.
James Keith.
Charles Atkinman.
Morris Atkinson.
Abner Cochrum.
Anno. Dom. 1767
John Law John Law jr. negroes Jeany &
Keat.
Henry Atkinson, jr.
Thomas Hall.
William Hall & Lansford Hall.
Jesse Hall.
William Hall, jr.
William Hill.
Isom Hall.
Thomas Dunkin, Jr.
Thomas Jones.
Thomas Anderson & James Anderson."
William Griffith.
Joseph Clements, Gabriel Clements & Var
diman Clements.
Francis Easom & Wm. Hungett,,
Hungett & Chas. Hungett.
Christopher Shot & Christopher Shot,
Benjamine Barten.
HISTORY OF PITTSYLVANIA COUNTY
John Ferguson & negro Dinah.
John Savory, Jr.
William Bramby.
Samuel Walker & negro Judd.
William Davis.
Joseph Bird.
Reuben Kieff.
Robert Hill, Swinfield Hill & Thomas
Hill.
Swinfield Hill.
Austin Shot.
Thomas Shoat.
John Vanbibber.
Henson McDonal.
Francis McGuier.
John McGuier,
Thomas Carter.
John McGuier, Jr.
Merry McGuier.
Paul Henson.
John Henson.
William Henson.
James Standeford.
William Murphy.
Miller Dogget.
Richard Hough.
Joshua Barton.
David Barton.
Isaac Barton.
William Ferguson.
Thomas Miller & William Sumers.
Francis Bird.
Andrew Ferguson.
Joseph Rentfro.
Robert Jones, Thomas Jones & Henry
Jones.
John Jones.
Robert Jones, Jr.
Philip Smith.
William Cook.
John Fushon.
James Rentfro, jr.
James Rentfro Sen, Joseph Rentfro &
Peter Rentfro.
Veath Dilingham & negro Jeany.
Peter Vanbiber, jr.
Isaac Vanbiber.
Mack Foster Sen.
285
Richard Peari's tithes are William Lowry,
negroes: Jack, Harry, Jeany, Hannah
& Silviah.
Anthony Litle.
Christopher Lackenair.
John Meadly.
John Dilingham.
James Lamb.
William Webb.
John Ramsey.
Joshua Weaver & Isaac Weaver.
Holden McGee.
Edward Richards.
William Dilingham & Joshua Dilingham.
Amos Richardson & negro Moll.
Benj. Jenkins.
Robert Tormet.
John Hall.
Francis Farley.
Wm. Heard, George Heard & Wm. Beans.
Thomas Bird.
Richard Shoat.
Jeremiah Muray.
John Stevenson.
John Callaway, negroes Flemen, Asher,
Nan & Nell.
Abraham Motley & Negro Peter.
Stephen Heard & Jesse Heard.
Hugh Innes, James Parberry, negroes
Juba, Keat & Peat.
John Heard.
Stephen Heard, jr.
Lewes Jenkins & negro Jack.
John Justice Constable.
William Henson.
William Witcher & negro Sawney.
William Keeny.
James Wade.
Daniel McKenzie.
William Atkinson & Owen Atkinson.
John Good, jr.
Joseph Deal.
Richard Shockley.
Daniel Witcher.
David Dalton & Benj. Dalton.
453
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_087.txt
:
GRAVESTONE in Old Irish Cemetery, Tazewell, Tenn.
Md.
ZACHARIAH MCCUBBINS
Born in Baltimore Co.
1752. Died in Claiborne
Co. Tenn. 1834. William
& Elinor McCubbin were
his parents.
Zachariah McCubbin and
Sarah Lane were married
in Pittsylvania Co. Va. Dec. 1772
ZACHARIAH MACCUBIN
MARYLAND
CAPT MARYLAND MILITIA
REVOLUTIONARY WAR
APRIL 15 1752 OCT 24 1834
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb, son of David McNabb, Sr. & Elizabeth
Taylor McNabb, and grandson of Baptist McNabb & Kathren his wife,
married Ellender McCubbin, dau of Capt. Zachariah McCubbin &
his wife, Sarah Lane McCubbin, dau of John Fuller Lane. Nathaniel
and Ellender married on January 20, 1805 in Carter Co. Tenn.
Among their children was, James Pinckney McNabb b. 9 Feb 1814,
who married Easter Flenniken De Armand a full-blood Cherokee girl
in Cleveland Co. Tenn on 13 November 1836.Their son was Nathaniel A
McNabb, father of Walter Scott McNabb, grfather of Viola Craig McNabb
wife of Solomon Johnson Davidson & mother of Walter Craig Davidson.
454 A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_088.txt
Family of
Wife of
Nathaniel Taylor Mc Habbe,
Eleanor mc Cobbin
MACCUBBIN
Immigrant John McCubbin born ca 1640 in Scotland; will dated 21 Sept 1685, will
proved 31 July 1686 the year of his death in Anne Arundell Co., Maryland. John1
arrived in Anne Arundell in 1659, where in 1665, he married a daughter of Samuel
Howard. She died in ca 1670, at the birth of their third child and only dau,
Elizabeth, which was probably the mother's name, which is verifiably unknown.
1John's other children by his first wife, the Howard girl, were John² and Samuel.
John McCubbin was born in Anne Arundell Co., Md. prior to 1677, ca 1666, and
died there 2 Dec 1736. He2married Ann Howard (according to the Abridged Compendium)
and they had 9 children, one of whom was William, Sr., the 2nd son and 4th child,
who was born in Anne Arundell, Md. ca 1695 and who married Nellie Griffith.
Wm. Sr., and Nellie Griffith had a son, William Jr., who, ca 1750, married
Eleanor Conley. Wm. Jr. and Eleanor, before the Revolutionary War, moved from
Baltimore Co Md/Pittsylvania Co., Virginia, where they settled on Rutledge
Creek of the Dan River.
William McCubbin Jr. & Eleanor Conley McCubbin had a son born in Baltimore
Co. Md in 1752, whom they named Zachariah. Zachariah McCubbin married Sarah Lane
in Pittsylvania Co., Virginia in 1772. Sarah Lane was the dau of John Fuller Lane
and his wife Elizabeth Cloud, dau of Isaac Cloud. Sarah Lane McCubbin was born
in Lunenburg Co. Virginia in 1754. Zachariah McCubbin was a Captain in the Town
Battalion, Annapolis, Md during the Revolutionary War.
Zachariah McCubbin and his wife Sarah Lane McCubbin had 9 children. The 6th
child and 3rd dau was Ellender (Eleanor). Ellender McCubbin married Nathaniel
Taylor McNabb in 1805 in Carter Co., Tenn. After the Rev War, Zachariah and
Sarah McCubbin moved to Claiborne Co., Tenn where he died in 1834 and is buried
in the Old Irish Cemetery just outside of Tazewell, Tenn. (Possibly both are
buried there.)
See Family Group Sheet for Nathaniel Taylor McNabb and Ellender McCubbins
McNabb. Nathaniel Taylor McNabb was son of David McNabb, grandson of Baptist
McNabb and greatgrandson of William McNabb, the Immigrant from Scotland, who
owned land in Augusta Co., Virginia in 1749 before moving To the Watauga area of
Washington Co./Carter Co. North Carolina/Tenn where he died, ca 1789.
Walter Craig Davidson's lineage from Revolutionary War Patriots, includes:
1. Zachariah McCubbin who married Sarah Lane.
2. John Fuller Lane who married Elizabeth Cloud.
3. Andrew Taylor, Sr. who married Elizabeth Wilson.
4. Isaac Cloud from Henry Co. Va. name of wife is unknown.
5. Baptist McNabb who married Katrin or Katherine
???.
6. David McNabb who married Elizabeth Taylor.
Lineage also includes:
William Craig Davidson, son of Walter Craig Davidson & Doris Louise Buckner Davidson.
Tyler Craig Davidson and Tara Louise Davidson, children of William Craig Davidson.
and grandchildren of Walter Craig Davidson and Doris Louise Davidson.
* Research indicates that her name was
Deborah,
See Section II Jo Mc Cubbin, Lane, Cloud and
Taylor leniaga + documentation,
454
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_089.txt
EUN. Heroes of the Revolution"
White Marsh, Stillwater, and at
discharged from service at Val-
red two and one half years. He
riously served in the battle of
rty years. He moved to North
County Tennessee, a short time
that time as between sixty and
daamily but gave no names.
at home and was himself living
HOOD
He
utionary pension while living in
1 he was 76 years of age.
listed in the service in 1777 in
aptain Downey. Ile substituted
ac Wilson's company. He was
Colonel Charles Robertson and
ted for Adam Hall in Captain
Phifer's regiment and served.
olonel Holmes in the battle of
King's Mountain. Captain John
Cleveland are mentioned in his
NDSAY
for pension for revolutionary
County. Tenn., August 28, 1832,
He was born in 1762 In Fred-
in Newberry, South Carolina, he
Smith's South Carolina company.
apany of Captain John Lindsay,
r July, 1780, again in Captain
ohn Lyle's South Carolina regi-
Husgrove's Mills, Fish Dam Ford,
in the Siege of Ninety-six from
ista and while there he was in
Eutaw Springs. He served until
in Newberry. South Carolina,
son County, Tennessee.
HEL MARTIN
1
Martin, applied for revolution-
ne County, Tenn., in February,
and therefore born in 1764.
She
in a North Carolina regiment
and was in the battles of King's
She married Salathiel Martin
The Secretary of North Caro-
served in the Revolution as a
JAMES MCBRIDE
MCNABB
James MeBride applied for revolutionary pension while residing
in Lincoln County, Tenn., in October, 1832. He was born in August,
1750, in County Down Ireland, whence he emigrated to America
settling first in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. He moved to Guil.
ford County, North Carolina, in 1771. He lived there until 1780
when he went to the Tennessee country He resided princimally in
Williamson County but later lived in Lincoln County. He enlisted
in Guilford County, North Carolina, and served under Captain George
Davidson and Colonel Francis Nash in the First North Carolina regi
ment. He was captured by the British but escaped.
WILLIAM MCFERRIN
William McFerrin appled for revolutionary pension while living:
in Tipton County, Tenn., in 1832. He was born agout 1757 and died
in 1845. He enlisted in Virginia Troops in Aurusta County, Virginia.
where he then resided He moved to Tennessee after the Revolution.
He married Jane Laughlin. Among their children were: Eleanor,
who married Colin Campbell, and Rev. James McFerrin, born 1784.
died 1840, who married in 1804 Jane Campbell Berry.
William McFerrin was living with Colin Campbell in 1832.
CAPTAIN DAVID MCNABB
Captain David McNabb's widow, Elizabeth McNabb, applied for
revolutionary pension, based on his service, while she lived in Meigs
County, Tennessee, in 1837, when she was 79 years of age. She died inc Mirin
CTN June 20, 181.9 buR IN MYNATT Savid McNabb entered the service
while living in Washington County, North Carolina, in the section
which became Carter County, Tenn. He raised a company of militia.
in Washington County, in June, 1780, and was elected captain He
served in two tours one under Colonel Robinson and one under
Colonel John Sevier and was engaged against the Indians.
He as
sisted in the destruction of their towns. He served another tour of
three months in 1781 under Colonel John Sevier during which his
company marched into South Carolina and assisted in capturing a
number of British soldiers. Captain McNabb returned to Washing
ton County and continued to reside there until his death, May 3.
1826.
He married in the year 1778, Elizabeth Taylor They were mar-
ried by "Parson Graham in the Stone Meeting Horse," In Aust
County, Virginia. They moved to Washington County to reside. She
stated that her broher. Andrew Taylor, moved from Augusta County.
to Washington County and resided near them. Andrew Taylor was
76 years of age in 1937 when he resided in Washington County.
Note: Captain McNabb's company marched to King's Mountain
following the other Mountain men by twenty-four hours, it is said.
and reached the site of the battle one hour after it was ended.
Andrew Taylor, Elizabeth Taylor McNabb's brother, was a meniber
of the well known Taylor family of Washington County. His fathe
was Isaac Taylor. For this family see, the Taylor Family of Ten-
nessee, Lookout Publishing Company.
Elizabeth Taylors father
grand father
was Anchow Toyles, Sr.
her brother was Andrew. gr.
139
455120
4/15/91
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_090.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME DAVID MCNABB, Sr.
When Born
February 22, 1755
Christened
When Died
When Burled
Where Augusta County, Virginia
Where
May 13, 1826 CARTER CTY,1
TENN
Where
When Married 1778, By publication, Parson
Presbyterian Stone Meeting
Where
Tean(See Pension Apli. W-7438)
Graham, Sinking Springs-Augusta Cty, Va. AND
House; Rockbridge, Augusta Cty, Virginia
His Mother's Maiden Name Kathren:
His Father Baptist McNabb
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Elizabeth Taylor
When Born 1757
Where
Augusta Cty, Virginia
Christened.
When Died
June 20, 1848
When Buried
Where
Where
Where
Other Husb. (Won)
Number (1) (2) Ic..
Her Father Andrew Taylor I
CHILDREN
ac
Female
(Arrange in order of birth)
M Absalom
ed
Ja
McMinn Cty, Tenn MINET Comotory
Mars Hill Cemetery, McMinn Cty, Tenn
Her Mother's Maiden Name Elizabeth Wilson
WHEN BORN
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
State or
County Country
Washington Cty
WHEN DIED
Day Munch
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Carter Cty, Tenn records and census. Charlene Hook
descendant; Tennessee Historical Society; Will of David's father, Baptist
McNabb, recorded in Washington Cty, North Carolina (now Tenn) available from
Tennessee State Library and Archives, 403, 7th Ave. N., Nashville, Tenn.,
37219-5041, located on Reel 169, Book or Vol. 1, Pages 7 & 8, dated 4 Jan..
1784, which names David as one of the executors of the estate and John the
other. The Will was proven on May 18, 1784, Washington Cty, No. Carolina-
since 1796, Tenn.-On October 7, 1780
his father, Baptist, was in
the battle of King's Mountain. Some records indicate he rose to the rank of
Col. in the Cherokee Indian Wars. Elizabeth McNabb's pension application,
based on husband, David McNabb's war service, is #23W7438 and is in the
National Archives (NNMS), Veteran's Records, Revolutionary War, Washington,
DC 20408. Annals of Augusta Cty, Virginia mention David several times.
Elizabeth Taylor's father: Andrew Taylor, b. Atrim, Ireland in 1733, d.1787,
Washington Cty, No. Carolina-now Tenn. (Note); Washington County was created
in 1777 by the Act of North Carolina. It'
became Washington Cty, Tennessee when Tenn.
became a state in 1796. Also in 1796,
Carter Cty, Tenn. was created from part of
Washington Cty. Thus, some of the events.
mentioned above, happened in what is now
Washington Cty, Tenn. and some in what is
Date
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO,TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Married
edt
ΑΘΗ ΤΟΥ
Bakers Cr CEM Date Sept 28, 1803 A 3
✓ Tenn 10 Aug 1858. To Mary Lusk
Cty
Nenn
То
Date
James Peoples
now Carter Cty, Tenn.) anide
12 May 1826,
David's will, dated 12
Ellender McCubbins
To John Brown
Datel .Mary Wright Jun 4,1814
To 2.Levesta Mynatt 15 Nov 1830
Date
Jan 12, 1813
Do y
Thur
27 May 1779
F
2 Rhoda
Sun
26 Nov 1780
Washington City
Ne
Date April 6, 1803
Tenn
-
То
MiNathaniel Taylor
Wed
5 Feb 1783
Washington Cty Tenn After 1840
No
Date Jan 20, 1805
F Catherine
Sat
25 Sep 1785
Before1826? To
Date Oct 17 1809
F
Jane
Sun
12 May 1787
"
"
"
M
James
Tue
8 Sep 1789
"
"
"
M 7David, Jr.
Tue
19 Apr 1791
"
"
"
Το
Date
"
"
"
M Andrew Taylor
Mon
13 Aor 1795
To
Carter County
ted in 1796
Date
"
M William
Thurs
29 Sep 1796
K
"
To..
"
=
Date
M
10 Mathew Taylor
Mon
22 Oct 1798
"
"
To
Margaret
"
Date
M
11 Isaac
Mon
5 Sep 1800
"
=
To
"
M
12 Alban
Sun
22 May 1802
"
"
"
M
Taylor
Mon
4 Mar 1805
"
"
In McMinnCty Date
After 1880
Mar 4,1876
McMinn Cty
То
Date
То Margaret
Rebecca
B.
O Margaret Whetson
Feb 9, 1817
Margaret Bogart
Mar 9, 1830
Nancy Brown
indicates he died in Carter County, Truss
where the well is recorded in Early
Wills Book No. I pages
MINET which is
incorrect.
497-498
455
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_091.txt
ITI
DAVID MCNABB, Senior
II
Circa 1768-69 William McNabb, Senior, moved his family to
the Buffalo Creek area of the Indian Lands of what became in
1777, by the Act of North Carolina, Washington County, North
Carolina; then in 1796 the area became Carter County, Tennessee
during the first meeting of the general assembly, after Tennessee
became a state in 1796.
Baptist McNabb, one of William's sons, in 1770 built the first
grist mill in Tennessee, on Buffalo Creek which is a stream running:
South to North in the NW corner of present day Unicoi County &
the SW corner of Carter County where it joins the Watauga river
west of Elizabethton, the county seat of Carter County.
McNabb. His
David McNabb, Senior, b. 22 Feb. 1755 Augusta County, Virginia
d. 13 May 1826 in Carter County, Tennessee, was the oldest of the
9 children of Baptist McNabb and Kathren
siblings were Isabella, who married Andrew Taylor II, in 1786 in
Washington County, North Carolina (after 1796 in Tennessee);=
John, James Jonathan; William who married Elizabeth ? in
Washington County, N.C., (later Tenn.) recorded in Carter County,
Tenn. in Marriage Record Book 18-18 p. 166 and whose Will is
recorded in Carter County, Tenn. dated 16 May 1809%; Mary%;B Jane;
Margaret and Kathren or Katrin.
David, in 1778, returned to Augusta County, Virginia to Marry
Elizabeth Taylor, daughter of Andrew Taylor, Senior, & Elizabeth
(Wilson) Taylor. (Andrew Taylor, probably Scotch-Irish, born
Atrim, Ireland in 1733 died Washington County, N.C. in 1787)
The young couple made their home in Washington County, N.C.
These were turbulent times in Western North Carolina and
Eastern Tennessee. An area West of the Blue Ridge generally
called Watauga Country. On October 7, 1780 both David McNabb &
his father, Baptist, joined several hundred other over-mountain men &
defeated the British Commander, Major Ferguson & his troops at the
Battle of King's Mountain, North Carolina. The defeat of the
British by over-mountain men, was a turning point in the Revolutionary
war in the South and the Watauga region was not again threatened
by invasion of the British; only the Indians were left with which
to be concerned.
"Captain David McNabb had an eleven year Revolutionary War
Record: First against the Indians, then the British, which lasted
from 1770 until 1781. He served the state of North Carolina with
General McDowell and General Marian, on tours. He also served.
under Fergerson. Captain David McNabb performed a tour of duty.
in August 1781, as a captain in what was then Washington County,
North Carolina, along the Doe River and across the Yellow Mountains
into South Carolina along the Santa River under Col. John Sevier.
456
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_092.txt
He also served in 1780 for a tour under Col. Robinson. He also
completed a three month tour under general Marian, when General
Marian ordered him to guard a bridge to keep the British out.
Private Jo Hendrix took an oath that he served under Captain
David McNabb in an expedition under John Sevier against the
Cherokee Indians.
David McNabb, Sr. resided "ten miles above New Port Pigeon" ☑
in Washington Cty., North Carolina--later Washington Cty., Tenn.--
now Carter Cty., Tennessee.
ད་
Above from the application papers for membership in the
National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
Washington, D.C. of Marian Louise Little Lowry of Murray, Utah.
Computer Code Number 3-016-FI, approved June 25, 1986.
In 1777 when the North Carolina Legislature established
Washington County, N.C., it appointed a Court for the new County.
Colonel John Carter was chairman and among others, John McNabb,
was a member of the
son of Wm. McNabb, Senior & David's uncle,
Court.
On April 9, 1796 the General Assembly of the newly organized
state of Tennessee met in Knoxville and among other items, passed
into laws a bill providing for the creation of a new county
extracted from the northern & eastern area of Washington County
land. It was the third of several assaults on Washington County
land. In 1779 Sullivan Cty. and in 1783 Greene Cty. had been
formed, each from Washington County. In 1836 Johnson Cty. was
formed from Carter County. Then as late as 1875 Unicoi was formed
from Washington & Carter Counties.
Following the Act of 1796, the boundries of Carter Cty. were
to be established by Nathaniel Taylor and Joseph Brown, and they
were to be allowed $2.50 per day for surveying the line, with an
additional $1.00 per day for markers. Originally Carter County
contained some 700 square miles. Presently (1989) it has about
300 square miles.
men
The 1796 Tennessee Legislature appointed a committee of 5
to locate a county seat & have built a courthouse, prison,
& stocks. David McNabb, Sr. was a member of this committee along
with Landon Carter, Reuben Thornton, Andrew Greer, Sr., and
Zachariah Campbell. They decided to locate the county seat at
the confluence of the Watauga & Doe Rivers and this county seat
of Carter County was named Elizabethton. In honor of whom there
is some question but no ready answers.
David McNabb had married Elizabeth Taylor a relative of Brig.
General Nathaniel Taylor & daughter of Andrew Taylor, whose own
wife was Elizabeth (Lane) Taylor. Also Landon Carter's wife
was Elizabeth (McLin) Carter. Additionally, William McNabb, who
was either David's brother or uncle, the record is not clear which,
was married to an Elizabeth. Thus, it seems evident that the name
This
may
чере
to new port on the Pigeon River.
457
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_093.txt
Elizabethton had more than one supporter on the Committee, i.e.,
David McNabb & Landon Carter, and probably even more
from some who were not committee members.
support
In any event, on Oct. 23, 1799 the Tenn. Legislature passed
an act confirming that the original 50 acre tract of 77 lots,
laid out for the town was "to continue to be a town".... such town
to be known as Elizabethton. Also in 1799 the Tennessee Legislature
appointed the first commissioners for the town of Elizabethton.
They were David McNabb, Senior, Landon Carter, Andrew Greer,
These town commissioners
Zachariah Campbell, and four others.
were given the power "to establish the necessary regulations
for.... government" of the town of Elizabethton.
The first Court of Carter Cty. was composed of men commonly
called esquires or justices of the peace. This Court elected
all the officers necessary for the peaceful functioning of the
County. The first Carter County Court included David McNabb, Sr.,
Nathaniel Taylor, Zachariah Campbell, Andrew Greer, Landon Carter,
Guttredge Garland, John Vaught, Joseph Lands & Reuben Thornton.
To recap the early political appointments of David McNabb,
Senior.
a committee of
1. Appointed by the Tenn. Legislature to
5 to locate a county seat for Carter County, Tenn, in
1796.
2. Appointed by the Tenn. Legislature, from existing
magistrates,
to be a member of the first Court of
Carter County & to elect all officers necessary for the
functioning of the County, in 1796.
one of the first
commissioners for the town of Elizabethton, to establish
the regulations for government of the town, in 1799.
How long David McNabb, Senior served in the town & County
as late as 1813-
positions is not shown by any records%3B however,
1817 he was a Carter County Trustee.
3. Appointed by the Tenn. Legislature as
From 1779 until 1805, David & Elizabeth had 13 children, 3
Today
girls & 10 boys, all born in what is now Carter Cty. Tenn.
(1989) there is not a McNabb residing in the County. As far as
it is known most of them migrated to the southwest down the
and on West. As far
valleys to McMinn & Bradley Counties, Tenn.,
as the records indicate, David's son, Nathaniel Taylor McNabb
was the last to leave Carter Cty. when in 1844 he sold his land
in Carter County and moved to Bradley County, Tenn. where his son,
David's grandson, Jame's Pinckney McNabb, had moved in the early
1830's.
There is a record of a Deed to Nathaniel Taylor McNabb
in 1814 in Claiborne Cty: Tenn. but no record that he lived there.
David McNabb, Senior, drew up his Will on May 12, 1826 and
died May 13, 1826 in Carter County, Tenn. The Will is recorded in
Early Wills Book %231, pages 497-498, Office of the County Court
Clerk, Carter County Courthouse, Elizabethton, Tenn. 37643. His
wife, Elizabeth died June 20, 1849 in McMinn Cty. Tenn. and is
David was probably
buried on the homeplace in Carter County%; however, no one knows
where the grave site is now. I, WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON accompanied by my wife,
Doris Louise Buckner DAVIDSON,
the gravesite. See following pages, 469A.
458 found
buried in Minet/Mynatt is the correct spelling.
Cemetery, McMinn County.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_094.txt
'
Captain David McNabb, Sr. in Revolutionary War
**Captain David McNabb had an eleven year Revolutionary War record
First against the Indians, then the British, which lasted from 1770
until 1781. He served the state of North Carolina with General
McDowell and General Marian, on tours. He also served under Fergerson.
Captain David McNabb performed a tour of duty in August 1781, as a
captain in what was then Washington County, North Carolina, along the
Doe River and across the Yellow Mountains into South Carolina along
the Santa River under Col. John Sevier. He also served in 1780 for
a tour under Col. Robinson. He also completed a three month tour
under General Marian, when General Marian ordered him to guard a
bridge to keep the British out. Private Jo Hendrix took an oath that
he served under Captain David McNabb in an expedition under John
Sevier against the Cherokee Indians.**
David McNabb, Sr. resided
"ten miles above New Port Pigeon" in
Washington Cty, No. Carolina--later Washington Cty, Tenn.--now
Carter Cty, Tennessee.
Above from the application papers for membership in the
National Sociaty of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
Washington, D.C. of Marian Louise Little Lowry of Murray, Utah.
Computer Code Number 3-016-FI, approved June 25, 1986.
George Taylors Know all men
Cower of attorney
20
by these presents that S. George Taylor of
David Mhabbe Pintimay district and State of South Carolina plantor have.
foto del 2 Traits made Constituted and appointed and by these presenty domate
If land in
Constitute and appoint David. Metabb &f Washington Counti
Gran County
in Verritory South of Ohio planter my bruce and Laugh La Hormon
for me and in my rance and to my use to sell too Traits of Land Lying in-
Jorun bounty and to grant dieds of Conveyance for the same le as to demand
and meuve of and from all and every person and Persong whatsoeverliving
on belonging in said Territory all and singular debt and dibly seem & siems
of money which now are due or shall be for the same to me and uponcinaçe
there for any part thereof for
and in my
name to make a good and Executo
Proper Accéeply and discharged for the same and an none payment thereseorang
port thereof.
actions or actions, sits at low
Equity for
me and in my name to Commence and Prosecute and riso le prysang Laman
Lums of money persuant to my order derechon and request a no de veratë, te
all and perform and Ecccule all and Whisperer shall be paya
fuciusly to all intin iz and purposes amit meghter aid dippe
Lenale prevent and all and watercer mejdaid alteram Shall brojulis
to'or Cruse to be done by barber & Base Presents I do hereby prom
ريات
One or
mone
me
me firm on this 6th day of may 1792-
cated and Delivered in præcivo
The Williams
Wilhame.
Power of Attorney from
or in.
Giorg: Taylor
Deo. Taylor to David Mc
6 May 1992 in Green Co.: NC/Tenn. David lived in "Washington Co.
in Territory South of this
459
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_095.txt
Granny
ville:
Unans Springs
Banner Hill
Chestos
ERWIN
FOREST
Juneville
с
TENNESSEE COUNTIES
U
NT
To Bluff City-
RIVER
JOHNSON
CITY
SINKING
BUFFALO
MOUNTAIN
CHFIELD
Okolona
Marbletown
Fishery (R.R)
UNiCoi
1875
Lillydale
MOUNTAIN
UNAKA
MITCHELL
NORTH
CA
R
°
Austin
Springs
Wataug
Shadtown
Milligan
Coliege
CAR
1796
STONE
MOUNTAIN
STONE
MOUNTAIN
Limestone
Cove
COUNTY
N
Pine, ALC
N
CART
460
Simerly
Fork
SULLIVAN/779
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_096.txt
State of Tennessee
To All To Whom these Presents Shall Come.
Greeting
No. 3613 or 5615
Know ye that inconsideration of an entry made in the Surveyors
office of the sixth district of Number 2743 dated the third
day of June 1815 founded on a warrant of Number 265 issued by
John Carter to Manor Simpson for six hundred & fifty acres of
land dated the fourth day of May 1769 fifty acres of which are
assigned to David McNabb this in and there is granted by the
said State of Tennessee unto the said David McNabb and his
heirs a certain tract or parcel of land containing seventeen
acres lying in the County of Carter in said district forming a
hundred acre tract of land and owned by said McNabb between
said tract and the Buffalo Mountain Beginning at an Elm and Lyme
on the south side of the Buffalo Mountain at eighty poles distance
due west of the beginning corner of a six hundred acre tract of
land granted to Baptist McNabb by the State of North Carolina and
one of a hundred acre survey granted to the said McNabb thence
with said line north then west sixty eight poles to two white oaks,
thence, south south forty poles to three Black oaks on the
mountain side thence with the mountain south then East sixty eight
poles to a stake and pointer thence forty poles to the beginning.
Surveyed October the twenty second 1810 with its appurtinances
to the said David McNabb and his heirs forever. In witness whereof
Joseph McMinn Governor of the said State Tennessee both hereunto
set his hand and caused the great seal of the said State to be
affixed at Knoxville on the 30th day of January in the year of
our Lord one thousand Eight hundred and Eighteen and of American
independence the forty second.
By the Governor
William Alexander Secretary
Jos. McMinn
David McNabb is entitled to the within named Tract of Land
Iac Tipton Register of East
Tennessee
February 9th 1818
Recorded in my office
Iac Tipton Register
of East Tennessee
Original on page 462
461
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_097.txt
fr
Bar
V W X Y Y Y X X YA
Jor
The Hales of Tennessee M
So all To whom these presents thalli Come?
Giristing
Rene Get that en Bendectander I
of of the the destruct
- of Mumbo 27/3 data they
Jun 1815 fun on 265 Spound ling
John Carter to prow for Ship homunity
t
Dto Dana. Mil there is
which an apegad
grantia by the sala itate of
and his hun
tion acro
a
Wing.
Curtain trash
in the
antanke
or
der with
J. Land
the said and sti
Lance Contony
in saine district Doming
Comnity of Coatin
a honored acce Trastlana
and owned by saree Matt
below and tract and the Buffalo Mola Baging
an Elm and Lyme on the south side of the Bufale montan
at rughly poly
of the Bigning Commu: of
as bit humared Pract
to Bettant Nath
by
the son of North Carolina and one of a homarias con du
Granted to the said McNabb thing with daix Lines north Lin.
"Eight fly to his white as the south both forty t
Thru Blair am on the mountain to The with the morning
tams south East, texty Eight fler to a thakis and fontos.
This forty for to the Belgining
Survey actotic the
Leventy
1816
wish its appurtenancy tohon on to hold the said Joper
al of Land with its appartienes to the said Davidoll Stabl
I wore whining Sosephett Mine Geren
or
his hun for
ww
of the How Hall That here to his ance and Cond
The great heal of the said thate to be apex at ville
on the 30
th
day
مرکز
Triona a January in the
بعه
xt
and g
American
independence the
Gouernor
fatty
incond
مشه
Dairpin Mail
Jos. M. Minen
Hans Alana Leevitary
isition to the withere nome dirait
Jebrnay 6th 1815
Vännchen
Tindra in
my e
462
212.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_098.txt
E. J. H S.
Bublication
Early East Tennessee Taxpayers
107
are all preserved and are available in the register's office. Current
instruments are recorded by photostat.
The tax rate for 1796 is unknown due to the loss of the early county
court minutes.
CARTER COUNTY, TENNESSEE
TAX LISTS
1796
Key to Column Numbers¹³
[1] Acres of land
[2] White polls
[3] Black polls
[1]
"A list of Taxable property in Carter County for the year 1796"
Names
[2] [3]
Names
[1]
[2] [3]
Archer, William
1
Burk, Elihew
1
Archer, John
200
Burk, Arter
1
Ashe, Thomas
100
1.
Bullinger, Peter
250
1
Alexander, George
75
1
Ballard, John
1
Abner, Elisha
205
1
Baker, John
155
1
'Anderson,
Buckner, William
1
Thomas, Junr.
155
1
Burk, Abraham
1
Anderson,
Branstetter, Peter
200
1
Thomas, Senr.
1
Barkehouse, John
300
Anderson, Joshua
1
Boon, Soloman
200
1
Asher, John
100
1
Baker, William
1
Ashbrooks, George
1
Adams, Jesse
1
Colyer, Charles
400
1
Cooper, Nathan
1
Boyd, William
400
1
2
Curtis, Bolen
Bogart, Samuel
608
Cooper, Edward
1
Bailey, Cottril
Bailey, Charles
26912
240
Cooper, Joel
177
1
Cobb, Dred
50
1
Bogart, Cornelius
19434 1.
Cooper, Patience
300
Bradford, Benjamin
1
Cooper, John
1
Bass, Jeremiah
240
19
Cooper, Jobe
150
1
Bowers, Leonard
50
1
Cunningham, Aaron
1
Bird, James
1
Cunningham, Mary
590
Bishop, Samuel
1
Cumpton, John
1
Bell, Richard
1
Cooper, Abraham
100
1
Brimer, Joseph
300
1
Conner, Julius
400
1
3
Beames, James
1
Crosson, Samuel
1
13 There are two additional columns in the original, "Stud horses" and "Town lots."
No individuals were listed as owning any town lots, but thirteen were designated as
owners of stud horses with one owning two: Peter Bullinger, Pharoah Cobb, Godfrey
Carriger, Sr., Alexander Greer, James Jones, Robert Lusk, Isaac Lincoln, Gidian Metlock,
Teter Nave, Edward Smith, Joseph Tipton (2), Nathaniel Taylor, and Samuel Tipton.
463
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_099.txt
CARTER County, TN Tax List 1796
.1796
Baptist I d. 1784
Probably
DAVID'S son;
Wm.;
DAVID'S Father died in
1789. Could also be
David's brother.
who died in
Carter Co in 1809.
Early East Tennessee Taxpayers
109
Names
[1]
[2] [3] Names
[1]
[2] [3]
Harden, William
1
Henderson, John
1 1
McNabb Baptist II
Henderson, Peter
1
McInturf, Caspar
McNabb, David, Junr.
100
Henderson, John, Junr.1
1
Moor, Absolem
50
Houser, John
1
McGeehen, Brewer
Helton, Peter
1
Maxfield, Thomas
180141
Heatherly, John
1
Moor, Daniel
100
1
Howard, John
107
1
McCormack, Robert
60
1
Heaton, John
104
1
McCay, John
300
1
Hooker, William
1
Miers, Peter
40
Ivey, James
50
McInturf, Israel
60
Ingle, Peter
100
McNabb William
300
McNabb, David, Senr.
258
1.-.
Jones, James
200
1
Jones, Thomas
Musgrave, Robert
320
100
1
Mason, Michael
1
Jones, Wells
1
Morris, Levin
100
1
Justice, Jacob
1
Moor, John Parker
120
1
Jenkins, Roland
248
1'
Metlock, Gidian -
1
Jenkins, Hugh
100
1
Jackson, William
Musgrave, Samuel
320
1
1
300
Metlock, William-
1
James, Rawlings
575
1
Metlock, George
444
1
Jones, Lewis
40
Mullins, John
1
Johnston, John
5000
Miller, John
King, William
1
Moreland, Charles
1
Kite, Richard
150
Miller, George
Kite, Isaac
1
Moreland, William
Kimmons, Joseph
1
Mulkey, Philip
Lockhart, William
1
Mulkey, Ann
Lackey, Thomas
200
1
Miller, Chrisley
Lusk, Robert
244
Miller, Daniel
Lusk, Samuel
1
Miller, John, Senr.
8888828
60
1
500
1
100
1
60
100
1
50
1
200
1
Lockhart, Robert
1
Miller, John, Junr.
1
Miller, Jacob
50
Lincoln, Isaac
725
2
4
Lacy, John
Miller, Henry
340
1
Lacy, Philimon
1
McQueen, Hannah
370
Lacy, James
1
McQueen, John
1
McWilliams, Thomas
1
Large, Joseph
1
Larew, Samuel
1
Newel, Joseph
1
Lay, Jesse
1
Nicholas, Daniel
100
1
Lay, John
200
1
2
Nave, Teter
200
1
Logan, George
175
1
Nave, John
100
1
Loyd, Levy
100
1
Nave, Abraham
50
1
Loyd, James
50
1
Nowland, William
1
Loyd, John
100
1
Nowland, John
1
McInturf, Christopher 400
Nicholson, John
36000
McInturf,
Peoples, Nathan
John, Junr.
218
Price, John
1
McInturf,
Poland, John
John, Senr.
Miller, Jacob
200
1
Payton, Joseph
1
Price, Thomas
200
12812
100
1
464
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_100.txt
DAVID MCNABB WILL
In the name of God amen this the twelth day of May in the year of our
Lord one thousand Eight hundred and twenty-six.
I David McNabb of the County of Carter and state of Tennessee, being
Sick & Weak in Boddy -But of Perfect Memory and sound mind, Calling to
mind the Mortality of the Boddy and that it is appointed to all men once
to die-
Do make Establish and ordain this to be my Last Will and Testament, that is
to say - Principally and First of all I recommend my soul to God who gave
it and my Boddy to the Earth to be buried in a decent and Christian manner
at the rescission of my Friends and Further such Temporal estate wheare
With It hath Pleased the Lord to Bless me with I give Bequeath and dispos
of in manner as follows with First of all I order and it is my will my just
debts and funeral expense be paid-
I give and Bequeath to my Beloved Wife a decent and maintainace whare I
live with the addition of my Household Furniture one mare three of the
choice of my cattle the sheep and yews at hir disposal with the addition
of the Hogs.
Secondly I desire my Land to be equally and justly divided into Eight lots
or parts having due regard to quality the saim to be don justly fairly and
Impartially-
Thirdly I desire my son William McNabb to Have and Recive the lot his
Mother livith on for his part.
Fourthly I desire the other seven lots to be drawn for By my seven sons
that is James McNabb Andrew McNabb Mathew McNabb Isaac McNabb Alben McNabb
Taylor McNabb and David McNabb.
Fifthly I desire my wagon and fairing utenculs to be for those of my Sons
who live on my farm
465
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_101.txt
Sixthly I desire that my.Daughter Rada Peeples Recive the Sum of Twenty
dollars-
Seventhly I desire that my daughter Jane Brown Recive the Sum of Twenty
dollars.
Eighthly if after the above Requisitions is Complyed with if it appear
that they is a remnant of Property let it Be Equally divided among my
daughters after the excption of Ten dollirs to my ten sons that is to
my son Absalom McNabb one dollar to my son Nathaniel McNabb one doller
to my son James McNabb one Doller to my son David McNabb one doller to
my son Andrew McNabb one doller to my Son William McNabb one Doller to
my son Matthew McNabb one doller to my Son Isaac McNabb one doller to my
son Alben McNabb one Doller to my Son Taylor McNabb one Doller and I
Constituit my Sons Nathaniel McNabb William McNabb and Taylor McNabb
Executors of this my last will and testament Revoking and making void all
other Wills and Testaments made by me conferming and Establishing this and
no other my last Will and desire - and Being unable to sign his name hath
authrised it to Be signed and acknoledged in the Presence of us
test Wm Peeples J
A
McInturff J
His
Henson Perry
mark
Typescript by
Doris L. Davidson
11 Dec. 1988
466
David McNabb
Seal
(Will written 12 May 1826)
(David died 13 May 1826)
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_102.txt
DAVID MCNABB, Sr., WILL dated 12 May 1826, Carter County, Tenn. Recorded in Early Wills Book
Number 1, pages 497-498, Carter County Clerk, Elizabethton, Tenn. 37643
David McNabb, Sr., died 13 May 1826.
a
In the Name of God in men, this. the stifth divit
of May in the year of our Word one thousand light
Hundred and twenty sed. -
I David M. Fall of the county of Carter and state
of Prismesser, Being Sick and Whack in Baldy
-
But of Perfect Memory and sound mind; balling
to mind the mortality of the Baddy and that it is
: appointed to all men once. to Die
Do make establish and or do this to Be my Last Will
and Testament, that Is to say - Principally's and Fir it
of all I. Ficou mind my is one to good who gave it
and my Baddy to the Cath to be buried in a diest and
Christian manis at the hiscretion of my Frinds
and Further such Timporal state heare With
St. hath Pleased the Lord to bless me Mitt-
geve Bequeath and dishes of in manet as
First Aialis order and Sit
of
site and funeral laknie
Expinie.
followith
in march my just
Paid
give and Bequeath to my Beloved Wife a decent-
and mountain ane Whare I live With the addition
of my Houshold Hurniture one mare three of the Chain
of my battle the sheep and
With the adition of the Macys.
queer
at hir dispasina é
-
Sceandly I discre my Land to be equally and
justly devrild in to light lots or Parts having
dun Regard to qualitity the saim to Be don of inst
ly fairly and Impartially-
thirdly I disire my son William. Moffate.
to Flave and Resiste the hat his mathin levith
on for his : Part.
Fourthly I disare the other seven bats to Be drawn
for By my sunn sons that is of amis Missabt
Andrew Habb. Mathew Metal Isac all ab
Alben Metabb Taylor Missabb. and David Mart.
467
497
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_103.txt
MCNADD, DAVID 1826
864 fighting desire. My. Magon and farting reteneuls
to Be for those of my Sons Who live on my far in
Sixthly I disire that My Daughter Pada Peoples
Prive the sum of Trinity dollers.
Scarsistity I desire that my daughter fane Brown
Pieve the sum of Prinity dollers.
Eighthly if after the above Prequsitions =
Is Complyed With if it appear, that
They is ȧremnant of Property let it Bi
Equally divided among my daughters after
the Exception of Ten dallers to my ten sons
that is to my son Absalam Matt
one doller to my son Nathaniel Métabl
one Heller to my son James Me past one Doller.
to my
Son David Mght one Bollit
to my son Andres Mehabt.
one Bolles
to my son William Attach one Potter
to my son Matthew All Vabb one
to my son. Isame Metabs one Doller.
to my som Alben McNabb. one Holler
to my Son Payler McNabb one Baller
and I Constituut my Sons, Nathaniel McNabb
William Matt and Taylor MB Vabb. Executors
of this my Lost Will and testaments.
Revoking and making Vid all other Wills
and testaments made By Me Confirming and
Establishing this one no other my last Wil
and discre
Poller
and Being unable to sign his;
nx.me ingth awetherisa and it to Besign and actinolid
gu in the Preasenia
distan Suples. I
Hand Mitäht Seaf
A tum Miniturft
Menson Merrig.
468
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_104.txt
THIS IS AN ACCOUNT OF THE NAMING OF ELIZABETHTON,
TENN, IN 1796, WHEN TENN BECAME A STATE. SUCH
NAMING WAS IN HONOUR OF A VIRGINIA GIRL, ELIZABETH
TAYLOR, WHOSE HUSBAND, DAVID MCNABB OF AUGUSTA
COUNTY, VIRGINIA, WAS A REVOLUTIONARY WAR OFFICER
IN NORTH CAROLINA.
ELIZABETH TAYLOR MCNABB SHARED THIS HONOUR WITH
ELIZABETH MCLIN CARTER.
469 A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_105.txt
RE: ELIZABETH TAYLOR MCNABB
TO WHOM IT MAY BE OF INTEREST OR CONCERN:
A written account substantiating the attached article
concerning Elizabeth Taylor McNabb and the naming of Elizabethton,
Tenn., was in existence as late as 1936 and still may be some-
place. My grandfather, Walter Scott McNabb, who had lived in
Hansford Co., Texas since around 1898; had been elected County
Clerk for 8 years in 1906, as he was a graduate of Abilene
Christian College; was President and principal owner of the first
bank in Hansford County; and who owned several mineral rights to
oil and gas lands in central Texas, was killed in an automobile
accident, in 1936.
During the chaos that ensued from something so unexpected, the
family members failed to ensure the security of my grandfather's
huge office safe. Sometime after the funeral, when the family
members went to the office to open the safe, they found it unlocked
and completely empty. The County Sheriff, Hix Wilbanks, and his
deputies never found a clue as to who might have robbed the safe.
There were several good suspects as a number of people owed my
grandfather considerable amounts of money and the signed notes
attesting to their debts, were in the safe.
My grandfather had always had a knowledgeable interest in the
McNabb Family History. He had employed several genealogists over
the years and had a number of notebooks filled with family infor-
mation, along with carefully filed photographs. Thus, from a close
association with my grandfather and the freedom to read through all
of the notebooks, plus the encouragement of both my grandfather
and my grandmother, I became something of an 'authority' on the
McNabbs and the McNeills. The latter being my grandmother's family
who came from the Isle of Tiree, Scotland to New Brunswick, Canada,
in 1825. The account of the naming of Elizabethton, Tenn. was a
part of the written information in one of the notebooks. HOWEVER,
it is doubtful that I would have remembered the account so clearly
except for an incident at the public school I attended when I was
14 years old. Like all students of the time, I was assigned to
give a talk to the class about something of interest. In an attempt
to impress a certain young lady named Elizabeth, who was in my
class, I read up on the account in my grandfather's notebook,
concerning the naming of Elizabethton, Tenn. Additionally, I could
fairly well describe Elizabethton from what I had been told by my
grandfather, my grandmother and my mother, Viola Craig McNabb
Davidson, who as a teenage girl had attended Ward-Belmont College,
a young ladies finishing school in Nashville, Tenn. On occasion on
trips to Nashville, my grandparents and my mother-to-be, would
continue on to Elizabethton, Athens and Cleveland, Tenn. before
returning to Texas.
In 1988, I read Frank Merritt's Master's Thesis, THE EARLY
HISTORY OF CARTER COUNTY, which, as a university professor who had
been on many examining committees for both masters level and
doctoral level research papers, I thought was very well done. Anyone
398
%
469 B
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_106.txt
familiar with such academic endeavors knows that a thesis at
the master's degree level, is not to be judged as an exhaustive
example of research. Rather, it is to examine the graduate
student's abilities to follow a reasonable scholarly form of
presentation and the content need not indicate research into and
based on original sources. Even though Mr. Merritt received two
years of help from his high school students who 'assisted in
gathering pertinent data.', the results were and are certainly
worthwhile.
Anyway, in January 1989, I called Mr. Merritt to order ten of
the histories so that I could give them to as many libraries. In
the telephone conversation, I mantioned that there was a great deal
more to the naming of Elizabethton, than was immediately apparent
from whatever source he used. Mr. Merritt did not indicate any
interest in the matter, so I just let it drop, as I knew from
years of experience, how defensive many persons become when one
discusses their written efforts. Whether or not this applies to
Mr. Merritt, I have no idea. What I do know is that there is a more
complete account of the naming of Elizabethton, Tenn.,in the
article I have written titled, "Elizabeth Taylor McNabb" than one
is apt to find anywhere else.
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
1309 E. BROWN ST.
LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
2
4690
399
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_107.txt
Additionally:
Imagine the scene---5 men are seated around a table engaged in
serious discussion. One of them, Landon, turns to David and says,
I know your wife is named Elizabeth Taylor McNabb, however, we
will name our new countyseat, Elizabethton, Carter County, Tenn.,
in honor of my wife, Elizabeth MacLin Carter, AND NOT IN HONOR
OF YOURS.
Just imagine further--here is David McNabb, combat veteran of the
Revol War, experienced Indian fighter-and one is to believe that
he says 'Why sure, Landon, ole boy, anything you say.'
Hell's fire, Landon would not have seen another sunrise.
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
1309 E. BROWN ST.
LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
3.
4690
310
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_108.txt
ELIZABETH TAYLOR MCNABB
Elizabeth Taylor was born in 1757/60, in Augusta County,
Virginia. She died on June 20, 1849 in McMinn County, Tenn.
Her parents were Andrew and Elizabeth Willson Taylor, Sr.
Two of her brothers were Andrew Taylor, Jr., who married
Isabella McNabb, sister of David McNabb, and Nathaniel Taylor
who served on the first court of Carter County and also became
the first Sheriff of the County. Nathaniel Taylor also became
a brigadier general. He was also the father of two sons who
became the first two such brothers to each serve as a Governor
of Tennessee.
In 1778 in Augusta County, Virginia, Elizabeth Taylor married
David McNabb who had been living with his father, Baptist McNabb,
in the area now named Carter County. Baptist McNabb built on the
Buffalo River, the first grist mill in what was to become the
state of Tennessee. The location of this mill seems to have
been about two miles outside of present day Elizabethton, Tenn.,
and was constructed about 1770.
Elizabeth and David McNabb made their home in present day Carter
County, Tenn. where they had thirteen children i.e., Absolom,
Rhoda, Nathaniel Taylor, Catherine, Jane. James, David, Jr.,
Andrew Taylor, William, Mathew Taylor, Isaac, Alban and Taylor.
David McNabb took an active interest in the affairs of the area
and served with distinction as a Captain in the American Revolution.
According to the Laws of Tennessee, Chapter XXXI, 1796, Knoxville,
Roulstone, George, 1803, pp 100--102. David McNabb, Landon Carter,
Reuben Thorton, Zachariah Campbell and Andrew Greer, Sr., were
4
469E
311
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_109.txt
WILLS AND ESTATE RECORDS
OF
MCMINN COUNTY, TENNESSEE
1820-1870
Researched, Compiled, and Edited
by
REBA BAYLESS BOYER
1966
6.
469F
313
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_110.txt
107
Alex. C. Robeson and Elizabeth McMahan app. Adms., and Elizabeth
McMahan is app. Gdn. of John McMahan, minor son.
WB B 230-234, 7 Dec 1835. Report of sale; includes note on Wash-
ington McMahan.
WB B 243, Apr 1837; C 22, June 1838. Reports by Gdn.
WB C 48-50, 27 Sep 1838.
Sett. by Adms.; "Paid John McMahan Sr.
and Polly McMahan his wife their claim of support"; paid to
James McMahan.
WB C 130, 161, 220, D 82, 134, 187, 189, 308, 369, 512, E 19, 92,
190, 281, 336, 417, dating from Apr 1839 to 26 Mar 1855. Sett.
by same Gdn., John C. McMahan minor heir; (1839: 1 bottle of
castor oil for the heir 50¢).
WB D 24, 31 Jul 1841.
Invt. by A.C. Robison.
WB E 561, 24 Aug 1856. Final sett. by Gdn.
MCMAHAN, ESTHER and MARY JANE
CR5 17, 6 Dec 1841. Jury of inquest finds that Peter, a slave of
John McMahan's, murdered Esther and Mary Jane McMahan on 15 Nov
1841.
MCMAHAN, JOHN, SR.
CR4 338, 7 Nov 1837. Jesse R. Blackburn app. Adm.
WB C 28, 6 Aug 1838; 44, Sep 1838; 167, 2 Sep 1839. Invt., Sale,
and Sett.
MCMANUS, JOSEPH
CR4 49, 10 Dec 1831. Power of Atty. from John Lambert, Gdn. of
minor heirs, to James Standifor is acknowledged.
MCMILLIN (MCMILLIAN, MCMILLION), DAVID
WB A 120-122, Will exec. 26 Jan 1827%3B to wife Mary%;B to children
Joseph, William, Nancy, Polly, Narcissa; to grandsons David C.
and Jonathan P. McMillion when they become of age. Execs:
Joseph and Wm. McMillion. Wit: John H. Porter, James Hickey.
Signed by mark.
CR2 262, 3 Mar 1828. Will proven.
WB B 158, 28 Oct 1834. Sett. filed by Wm. Lowry, Nat Smith, and
Elijah Hurst%3B "heirs six in number"; finds in hands of executor
for David Caldwell, Wm. McDaniel, D.C. and J.P. McMillan, and
old Lady McMillan.
MCMILLIN, ROBERT W.
CR2 96, 6 Sep 1825.
Adms.
Report by Thos. Parris and Joseph W. McMillin,
WB A 27-29, no date; 62-64, no date. Invt. and Sale; sold to
widow.
WB A 221, 6 Sep 1830. Sett. Comm. N. Carson, David Roper, and
R.W. McClary settle with Joseph Love Gdn. for David C. McMillin
and Carson Caldwell Gdn. for Jonathan P. McMillin.
McMINN, JOSEPH
CR4 226, 1 Jun 1835. Wm. J. Johnson app. Gdn. for William C.,
Nancy G., Reason H., Treacy A., Luisa M., and Elizabeth J. McMinn.
WB B 251(2), Jun 1837. Report by Gdn.; received from Orville Brad-
ley, Exec. of will of Joseph McMinn on 25 Oct 1835.
WB C 24, 143, 145, 262, dating from 4 Jun 1838 to 8 Apr 1840.
Reports by Gdn.
MCNABB, ELIZABETH
CR5 487, 3 Oct 1848. Wm. McNabb app. Adm. of Mrs. Elizabeth McNabb.
314
Begin Here
7
469G
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_111.txt
108
WB E 112, 26 Sep 1850.
CC Record Bk. A, p. 139.
Sett. by Adm.%; received pension money.
Henderson McNabb and James McNabb for
himself and the other heirs at law of Elizabeth McNabb, dec'd
VS Daniel Wammack and Wm. Rivers and his wife Susan Rivers.
Elizabeth McNabb died 20 Jun 1849 leaving heirs James, William,
nder son, and
→ MONABBAL JAMES
Other 5.
WB F 412-413, Will exec. 11 Feb 1861, proven Oct 1861; to wife
Lavista, "having no horse I therefore will her none"%; to sons
H.W., Isaac H., Mathew G., Nathaniel B., and Elkany; to dau.
Rhoda T. Robinet%3B to Lucretia White%3B "the seven heirs previously
mentioned"%3B to two sons-in-law Price Ward and John Orton, $1
each; to two granddaus. Mary E. Ward and Mary E. Orton when they
reach 18; Exec. to get a set of tombstones worth $15 to be
Exec: James H.
placed at head and foot of mother's grave.
Lowrey. Wit: Robert Mansell, Benj. T. Ziegler, and Robt. A.
Lowery.
WB F 469-471. Invt. of notes and property sold 18 Oct 1861.
WB F 471, 4 Nov 1861. Comm. R.A. Lowry, B.T. Ziegler, and Jas.
H. Lowry lay off year's support for widow.
WB G 32, 5 Dec 1864. Sett.; receipts from N.B. McNabb, J.F.
Robinett and wife, M.G. McNabb, and widow Lavesta McNabb.
WB G 172, 28 Apr 1866. Sett.; receipts from Elkana, "II.W., and
Jane (James) McNabb.
MCNUTT, JOSEPH
CR10 126, 2 Aug 1869.
heirs.
MCNUTT, WILLIAM F.
CR8 140, 2 Mar 1863.
CR9 4, 5 Sep 1864.
Porter, dec'd.
CR9 30, 2 Jan 1865.
Report by Daniel Wamack, Gdn. of minor
Boyd Porter app. Adm.
John B. Porter app. Adm. in place of Boyd
John B. Porter, Adm., ordered to deliver all
funds to Gdn. of minor heirs.
WB G 53, 1 May 1865. Report by R.A. Love, Gdn. of minor son
Robert McNutt%;B has received nothing as yet.
WB G 143, 2 Feb 1866. Invt.
WB G 144-146. Sales held Mar 1863 and Nov 1863 by Boyd Porter,
Adm., filed by John B. Porter; payments for items sold Mar 1863
was in Confederate Scrip.
WB G 147, 2 Feb 1866. Acct. of sales held 29 Oct 1864.
Sett. by Gdn. and Adm
WB G 179, 12 May 1866 and 195, 30 Aug 1866.
CC 48, filed 12 Feb 1866. James McNutt moved to this country in
company with his bro. Wm. F. and his aunt Sarah McNutt in 1861
James McNutt was
or 1862. His aunt Sarah married Russell Lane.
away for nearly three years and when he returned his bro. Wm. F.
had died in 1863 leaving an only child represented by Robert
Love, its grandfather. James is the only surviving bro. of Wm.
F. McNutt.
MCPHAIL, DANIEL
CR10 90, 92, 1 Feb 1869. John B. Kennedy app. Adm. and Comm. app
to lay off year's support for widow and family.
CC 199, filed 1 Mar 1869. Daniel McPhail died Dec 1868 intestate
Martha J., wife of John
leaving widow Elizabeth and children:
B. Kennedy; Nancy M., wife of James S. Beaver; John P.,
dec'd,
8
4697
315
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_112.txt
A MCNABB FAMILY LINEAGE
The first William McNabb came to Boston circa 1690 and by
1695-97 was settled in the Delaware River Valley in what is
Moravian Church Missionaries'
now Monroe County, Penn./Records *show that Wm. McNabb was a
blacksmith and was well known in the area. His son, Wm. McNabb II,
married Betty Aiken or van Akin, of which there were several such
families in the immediate vicinity. After Betty died, circa
1740, Wm. II, moved to Augusta, Virginia where he obtained a
grant in 1749. Wm. McNabb II, was accompanied by several of
his children, i.e., Baptiste, John, Samuel, Betty & James, with
Baptiste being the oldest one, having been born. circa 1723 in the
area of Dansbury, now Stroudsburg, Penn.
Baptiste McNabb married Katherine-------and they moved to the
Buffalo River area of then Washington County, NC, now Carter
County, Tenn., where Baptiste constructed the first grist mill in
Tenn. in 1770. The children of Baptiste & Katherine were: Isabella,
John, born 1755; David, born 1757; James (Jonathon); William; Mary;
Jane; Margaret; Katrin (Katherine). Baptiste acquired several land
grants in the present area of Carter Co. Tenn, where his will was
written on 4 Jan. 1784, and probated 18 May 1784. Katherine, his
wife, had died at an earlier date. Wm. McNabb, the father of Baptiste
died in 1789 in the Wautauga area, of Washington County, NC/Tenn.
David McNabb born 22 Feb. 1757 in Augusta Co., Va. died on 13 May 1826,
in Carter Co., Tenn. He married Elizabeth Taylor in 1778 and the
names of their children are shown on the previous page.
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb born 5 Feb. 1783 in Washington Co.NC/TN in 1805,
married Eleanor McCubbins, dau of Captain Zachariah & Sara Lane
McCubbins. Among their several children was James Pinckney McNabb
* A complete Copy of these Records is in the Virginia State Library,
Archives, Richmond, VA. Donated by Walter Craig Davidson.
9
469i
316
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_113.txt
317
born 9 Feb. 1814 in Carter Co. Tenn. He married Easter Flenniken,
a full blooded Cherokee Indian girl, on 9 Feb. 1836, in Bradley
Co., Tenn. His father Nathaniel Taylor McNabb, died in Cleveland,
Bradley Co. Tenn sometime after the 1840 US Census. In 1851, James
Pinckney McNabb, his wife and family moved to Webster Co. Missouri,
then in 1858 to Fannin Co. Texas; then in 1860 to Cooke Co. Texas
(Marysville); then in 1867 back to Webster Co. Missouri where he
died on June 28, 1893. His wife Easter Flenniken McNabb had returned
in the early 1880's to Fannin Co. Texas to take care of her very ill
sister, who had moved there from Tenn, when she became ill herself
and died there in Fannin Co. Texas. The sixth child of James Pinckney
and Easter McNabb was Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb born in Carter Co. Th
April 2, 1848. On 10 October 1872 in Honey Grove, Fannin Co. Texas he
married Rebecca Ann Turner who had been born in Honey Grove on Dec.
24, 1857. Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb died on 26 March 1900, Rebecca
Ann McNabb died on 29 Jan 1942; both of these deaths were on the home
place on Ioni Creek, Stephens Co. Texas and they are both buried in
the Macedonia Cemetery, Stephens Co. Texas. Among their several
children was Walter Scott McNabb born December 1, 1875 in Desdemona,
Eastland Co. Texas. On Dec. 15, 1896 he married Birtie Sophia McNeill
who had been born on 6 May 1880 in Palo Pinto Co. Texas. Walter Scott
McNabb died 4 Sept 1936 in Amarillo, Potter Co. Texas; Birtie Sophia,
Mother Mac, to all who knew her, died 23 Nov. 1969 in Spearman,
Hansford Co. Texas where they are both buried in the Old Hansford
Cemetery. They had two children. One of them was Viola Craig McNabb
14June 1917-in Dalhart, Texas
born 21 Feb. 1900 in Stephens Co. Texas. She married so
Solomon Johnson
Davidson born 19 Sept. 1893 in Weatherford, Parker Co., Texas. Viola
Craig McNabb died 12 Feb1996-Hansford Co.Tex-Solomon Johnson Davidson
died on 21 Dec. 1975 in Ontario, Calif. where he is buried in the
10.
4697
317
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_114.txt
Bell View Mausoleum. Their son, Walter Craig Davidson, was born
in Hutchinson, Kansas on 7 March 1920. He married Doris Louise
Buckner* born 21 May 1921, in Leaksville, now Eden, NC, on 1 Mar 1945.
On 1 Sept 1947 their son Wm. Craig Davidson was born in Amarillo,
Texas. In a direct line Wm. Craig Davidson (and counting the generation
in which David and Elizabeth Taylor McNabb lived as number one) is
the 8th generation or said another way, Elizabeth Taylor McNabb is
William Craig Davidsons great-great-great-great-great-great-grand
mother.
It was Elizabeth Taylor McNabb's fifth great grand son who had the
new grave monument installed. This was done to replace the one that
had been put there in 1862 after the death of James McNabb, the son
of Elizabeth Taylor McNabb, who had left instructions in his will
for a stone marker to be put on his mother's grave. That marker had
served its purpose very well but time and the elements had taken such
a toll on it that it could no longer be read. So it was time for
a new one. And a hundred years or so down the road perhaps, another
descendent will have another new and legible one installed.
That fifth great grand son is:
December 1995
Davidson
Walk braiz
915/247-3617
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
1309 E. BROWN ST.
LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
**Doris Louise Buckner Davidson is a direct descendant of 'The
Immigrant John Buckner & his wife Deborah Ferrers who married
on 10 July 1661, in Buckinghamshire, England. They arrived in
Virginia prior to 4 July 1665. The direct male lineage is: John1,
Richard, John 3, John4, John 5, James A., Stephen M., Emmett, and
Eugene Buckner, her father. John Buckner died 10 Feb. 1695 in
Essex Co., Virginia. He descended from Rychard Buckner, 1493-1548,
who lived in Cumnor, Berkshire, England. Rychard descended from
Robert Bucknore (Buckner) of London who died in 1365.
11.
469 K
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_115.txt
The front of the monument reads:
ELIZABETH TAYLOR MCNABB
BORN 1757 IN VIRGINIA
DIED 20 JUNE 1848 IN
MCMINN COUNTY, TENN.
DAU. OF ANDREW TAYLOR, SR.
AND WIFE, ELIZABETH WILLSON.
SHE WAS MARRIED IN 1778 IN
AUGUSTA COUNTY, VIRGINIA
TO CAPTAIN DAVID MCNABB,
AM. REV. OFF. BORN 1755 IN
VIRGINIA. DIED 13 MAY 1826
IN CARTER COUNTY, TENN.
The back of the monument reads:
ELIZABETH MCNABR SHARES
THE HONOUR WITH
MRS ELIZABETH CARTER,
OF HAVING ELIZABETHTON,
CARTER COUNTY, TENN.
NAMED FOR HER WHEN
DAVID MCNABB AND
LANDON CARTER WERE
MEMBERS OF A COMMITTEE
APPOINTED BY THE
TENNESSEE ASSEMBLY IN 1796,
TO LOCATE AND NAME THE
COUNTY SEAT OF
CARTER COUNTY, TENN.
319
FOOTNOTE CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS PAGE--
Doris Louise Buckner Davidson is also a direct descendant
of 'The Immigrant' Jacob Luursen Van Kuykendall and his wife,
Styntje Douwes who married on the 16 August 1638 in Amsterdam,
Holland and came to America in 1640 on the ship "Princess"
owned by the East Indian Shipping Co., of Holland. The direct
lineage is: Jacob Luursen; Luur Jacobsen; Cornelius; Abraham,
a Captain in the Revol War; Jacob; Jacob Richmond; and Louisa
Jane Kuykendall who married Stephen Morgan Buckner. Then Emmett
son of Stephen Morgan; Eugene, son of Emmett; and then Doris
Louise, daughter of Eugene Buckner and his wife, Virginia Ella
Weddle.
12
4692
219
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_116.txt
ELIZABETH TAYLOR MCNABB
BORN 1757 IN VIRGINIA
DIED 20. JUNE 1848 IN
MCMINN COUNTY, TENN.
DAU OF ANDREW TAYLOR, SR.
AND WIFE, ELIZABETH WILLSON
SHE WAS MARRIED IN 1778 IN
AUGUSTA COUNTY, VIRGINIA
TO CAPTAIN DAVID MCNABB,
AM. REV. OFF. BORN 1755 IN
VIRGINIA. DIED 13 MAY 1826
IN: CARTER COUNTY, TENN.
Mynatt Family Cemetery, mcmenn Co. Ton
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_117.txt
MCMINN COUNTY, TENN.
TOMBSTONE
INSCRIPTIONS IN THE
MINET (MYNATT)*CEMETERY
Mrs.
Laura McKenzie Everett
:
Died Mar. 18, 1935
:
Aged 64 yrs. 1 mo.
Lake Everett
Mar. 6, 1906
July 12, 1910
Ludie Everett
June 24, 1896
Mar. 12, 1898
321
Elizabeth Taylor McNabb,
Wife of David McNabb,
1857-1848-----Should be 1849)
:
:
:
Vesta McNabb (Levesta Mynatt
:
:
:
McNabb married James McNabb
15 November 1830)
Andrew Walker
Died about 1890
:
About 60 yrs.
David Alexander McKenzie
Oct. 29, 1847
Mar 12, 1914
D.A. McKenzie
Nov. 4, 1904
July 1, 1935
Taylor S. Everett
1870-1947
0.
: Narcisis Minet Mitchell
:
:
Nancy Minet
:
:
Cynthianna Minet
FILED in my office on the
of
12 day
70.
1096 l/0:45M
Noted in Note Rock 148
Recorded In Book/3 Q308
Nadean Cumingham
Register of McMinn County, Tennessee
* Where the spelling as Minet came from I do not know; however,
all the original family documents show the family name to be
spelled Mynatt.
Following are the directions for locating the Minet Cemetery:
Take County Road 100 NWest from Riceville, or from the intersection
of 1-75 and CR 100, to CR 82, which is about 4½ miles. Then take
CR 82 SEast until CR 82 turns to the NWest at the intersection of
CR 82 and CR 59, which is about 1½ miles. Then take CR 59 to the
very first road to the West. That is, to your right, and is about
400 yards from the intersection. It is CR 53 on which you travel about
another 400 yards and at the slight bend to the left of the Road,
on your right is the Minet (Mynatt) Family Cemetery.
In November 1995, Walter Craig Davidson had a new tombstone placed
on the grave of his fifth great grandmother, Elizabeth Taylor McNabb.
The old marker had been placed there in 1861 or 62, after the death
of James McNabb, son of Elizabeth Taylor McNabb & David McNabb. In his
will, James left a sum of money and instructions to place a stone
marker on his mother's grave. That stone had served well for over a
hundred and thirty years; however, time and the elements had rendered
it virtually impossible to read and in another few years all information
on it would have been lost. One would hope that in another two or
three hundred years someone will replace this one.
14
321
469N
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_118.txt
4690
་་
15
MCNABB
тежей
Tenn
Mynatt Family Cemetery
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_119.txt
January 10, 1989
Dear Mr. Davidson:
Received your letter today forwarded to me by Mr.
Wartman and since I know what it is to be wondering
why someone doesn't write, I thought I would get right
back to you.
Andrew Taylor I married Elizabeth Wilson 1st and they
were the parents of Isaac Taylor, Andrew Taylor II,
Matthew Taylor, and Elizabeth Taylor. Elizabeth Wilson
died and Andrew Taylor I then married her sister Ann'
Wilson and they were the parents of General Nathaniel
Taylor, Rebecca Taylor and Rhoda Taylor.
Andrew Taylor I was in the Revolutionary war as well as
his
Isaac Taylor, who was a doctor.
son,
General Nathanfel
Taylor was in the War of 1812 with Andrew Jackson as well
as fighting the Creek Indian down in Tenn. & Alabama and
around.
I hope this information will be of some help to you.
Sincerely
15
Jack Q. Williams
Rt 9 Box 488.
Johnson City, TN 37601
Addition as follows, by Walter Craig Davidson
Andrew Taylor II married Isabella McNabb in 1786 in Washington County, North
Carolina(now Tenn). She was the daughter of Baptist McNabb, Sr., and the
sister of David McNabb, b. 22 Feb. 1755 in Augusta Cty., Virginia d.13 May 1826.
David McNabb, son of Baptist McNabb, Sr., married Elizabeth Taylor in 1778,
in Augusta Cty., Virginia. Elizabeth Taylor was the daughter of Andrew
Taylor I, and the sister of Andrew Taylor II. She was born in Augusta Cty.,
Virginia in 1757(60) and died in McMinn Cty., Tenn. on June 20, 1848. She
is buried in MYN ATT Cemetery McMinn Cty., Tenn. She and David had. 13
children--3 daughters and 10 sons--Four of the sons had 'Taylor' in their
names. For example, Nathaniel Taylor McNabb b. 5 Feb 1783. They lived
all of their married lives in Washington County, N.C., until 1796, when Tenn
became a state and Carter County was organized from part of Washington County.
After David's death in 1826, Elizabeth moved to McMinn Cty, Tenn from Carter
County, Tenn. She received Pension #W7438, as a widow of a Revolutionary War
veteran. David was appointed to the committee, by the Tenn Assembly, to locate
a site for the county seat of Carter County, in 1796-97. The site was
determined and named Elizabethton. Landon Carter, another committee member,
also had a wife named Elizabeth--so it is a shared honour. Elizabethton is
still(1989) the county seat of Carter County, where David died 13 May 1826.
(Andrew Taylor II married David McNabb's sister--and David McNabb married
Andrew Taylor II's sister--AND Andrew Taylor I had earlier
married his children's aunt--his first wife's sister)
. The daughters
Col. John
Elizabeth & Ann Wilson were
sister, Isabella Willson, married Isaac Taylor, Senior, father
Andrew Tayla, So. who first married Elizabeth,
Willson whose
& mother
Then Ann,
Willson
Wilson.
or
spelled both ways;
469
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_120.txt
ELIZABETH
TAYLOR
MCNABB
(WIFE OF DAVID MCNABB
b Feb 1755 d May 1826) was
born in Augusta County,
Virginia in 1757 and died in
McMinn County, Tenn., June
20, 1849. Elizabeth shares
the honour with Mrs.
Elizabeth Carter, of having
Elizabethton, Carter County,
Tenn. named for her when
David McNabb and Landon
Carter were members of a
Committee appointed by the
Tennessee Assembly in 1796,
to locate and name the
county seat of Carter
County, Tenn.
Front of
尔
m
tombstone placed
Davidson
Walter Cra
hier ancestors grand.
McMann Co. Tann
16
469 P
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_121.txt
INDEX
Augusta County, Virginia p. 4.
Brown, Nancy p. 5.
Buckner,
Emmett, p. 11, 12
Buckner, Con'td
Robert (Bucknore) p. 11.
Richard²,
p. 11
Rychard, p. 11.
Eugene, p. 11, 12
James A., p. 11
1
John, p. 11 (The Immigrant)
John, p. 11
4.
John, p. 11
John, p. 11
Stephen Morgan, p. 11, 12
Campbell, Zachariah p. 4
Carter, Elizabeth McLin p. 3,5,15.
Carter, Landon p. 4, 15.
Davidson, Doris Louise Buckner, p. 11, 12.
Davidson, Walter Craig, p.2,3,6,9,11,12.
Davidson, William Craig, p. 11.
Davidson, Solomon Johnson, p. 10.
Douwes, Styntje, p. 12.
Flenniken, Easter, p. 10.
Ferrers, Deborah, p. 11.
Greer, Andrew, Jr., p. 4.
Katherine ???, p. 9.
Kuykendall, Louisa Jane, p. 12
McCubbin (s), Sara Lane, p. 9.
McCubbin, Zachariah Capt., p. 9.
McCubbin, Eleanor, p. 9.
McNabb,
Taylor,
INDEX CONTINUED
Andrew, Jr., p. 5.
Andrew, Senior, p.5.
Ann Willson, p. 5.
Elizabeth Willson, p. 5.
Nathaniel, Brig. Gen., p.5.
Thorton, Reuben, p. 4.
Baptiste & wife, Katherine, p. 9. Their children are listed
on page 9,i.e., David, Isabella, James, Jane, John, Katrin or
Katherine, Margaret, Mary & William--in no particular order.
David, p. 3,4,5,11 and his wife Elizabeth Taylor McNabb, p. 1,
3,4,5,7,8 & 11. Their children are listed on page 4, i.e.,
Absolum, Alban, Andrew Taylor, Catherine, David Jr., Isaac,
James, Jane, Mathew Taylor, Nathaniel Taylor, Rhoda, Taylor
and William. ---In no particular order.
James,p.4,5,10 & his wife Levista Mynatt McNabb, p. 5. Their
children are listed on page 8, i.e., Elkany, H.W., Isaac H.,
Lucretia, Mathew G., Nathaniel G., Rhoda; in no particular order.
Walter Scott p. 1 & 10
James Pinckney p. 10.
Nathaniel Armstrong, p. 10.
Viola Craig, p. 1.
William II p. 9, & his wife Betty Aiken, p. 9, Their children
are listed on page 9, i.e., Baptiste, John, Samuel, Betty and
James; in no particular order.
William I, p. 9. (Was probably son of an immigrant, James McNabb)
McNeill, Birtie Sophia, p. 10.
Merritt, Frank, p. 1, 2.
Van Kuykendall, Jacob Luursen, p. 12.
Luur Jacobsen, p. 12
Cornelius, p. 12.
Abraham, p. 12.
Weddle, Virginia Ella, p. 12.
Kuykendall Con'td
Jacob, p. 12.
Jacob Richmond, p. 12.
Louisa Jane, p. 12.
17
469Q
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_122.txt
Son of
David McNabb
-
-bom Sept 1789, Washing
Cs.
Ne/Tann
WILL OF JAMES MCNABB·
AS WRITTEN EXCEPT NOTATION NUMBERS DELETED.
PARAGRAPHS INDICATE NOTATIONS
FEB 1861
JAS MCNABB LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT
I JAMES MCNABB OF THE COUNTY OF MCMINN AND STATE OF TENNESSEE
BEING OF SOUND MIND AND DISPOSING MEMORY DO MAKE ORDAIN
PUBLISH AND DECLARE THIS TO BE MY LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT
HEREBY REVOKING ALL OTHERS HERETOFORE MADE BY ME.
IT IS MY WILL THAT ALL MY JUST DEBTS BE PAID.
IT IS MY WILL THAT MY EXECUTORS GET A PAIR OF TOMBSTONES TO
BE PLACED AT THE HEAD AND FOOT OF MY MOTHERS GRAVE. ELIZABE+h Taylor
I WILL TO MY WIFE LAVESTA MCNABB TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
DOLLARS.
MCNABB
They placed
I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO MY WIFE LAVESTA MCNABB ALL MY INTEREST only
& RIGHT IN MY LANDS TOGETHER WITH THE BUILDINGS APPERTINANCE
THERE TO EXCEPT BRAGDANS LEASE.
I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO MY WIFE LAVESTA MCNABB TWO BEDS
BEDSTEADS & FURNITURE ANA CORNER CUP BOARD & FURNITURE FOUR
CHAIRS ANA TEA KITTLE ANA COPPER KITTLE ANA COFFEE MILL ANA
COFFEE POT ANA WASH KITTLE ANA SKILLET & LIDS ANA BAKER AND
LID ALL THE WATER VYSELS & THREE TIN CUPS AND THE CROCKE &
JARS ON HAND ANA BEEHIVE ANA COW & CALF ANA CHURN
(UNREADABLE) WASH TUB GEESE OTHER FOWLS TWO TABLES ANA CHEST
TWO JUGS SISE (?) BOTTLES ANA PAIR FIRE IRONS AND AND FIRE
SHOVEL ANA RACK (?) ANA SIDE SADDLE ANA KITTLE. ALSO SEVEN
DOLLARS IN LEIW OF ANN (UNREADABLE) HEIFER (UNREADABLE) ANA
SMOOTHING IRON ALSO TEN DOLLARS OUT OF ANY MONEY ON HAND AT
MY DEATH ALSO ONE YEARS MAINTENANCE VALUED TO HER BY P.A.
LOWREY & B.J. ZIGLER ---
I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO MY SONS VIZ, TO H.W. MCNABB FOUR
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS --- TO ISAAC H. MCNABB FOUR
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS. TO MATTHEW G. MCNABB FOUR
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS. TO NATHANIEL B. MCNABB FOUR
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS ALSO I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO
MY SON ELKANY MCNABB THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS ALSO TO MY
DAUGHTER RHODA T. ROBINETT (?) THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS ALSO TO
LUCRETIA WHITE THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS
one
tombstone
CA. 1860.
18
469 R
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_123.txt
I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO MY TWO GRANDAUGHTERS (VIZ) TO MARY
E. WARD ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS. TO MARY E. ARTIN (?) ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO BE PAID TO THEM BY MY EXECUTORS WHEN THEY
ARRIVE AT THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN BUT IN CASE EITHER OR BOTH OF
THEM DIE BEFORE THEY ARRIVE AT THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN THE MONEY
WILLED TO THEM SHALL BE DIVIDED BETWEEN THE (UNREADABLE)
HEIRS PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED.
SHOULD MY WIFE LAVISTA MCNABB MARRY THE DOWER IN THAT CASE
SHOULD CEASE & MY EXECUTORS SHOULD FOURTHWITH PROCEED TO
SELL
MY INTERESTS IN SAID LANDS AND DIVIDE THE PROCEEDS OF THE
SAME EQUALLY AMONG MY (UNREADABLE) HEIRS (VIZ) H.W. MCNABB
ISAAC H. MCNABB, MATTHEW G. MCNABB NATHANIEL B. MCNABB ELKANA
MCNABB ALSO RHODA ROBINETT & LUCINDA WHITE.
SHOULD THERE BE A REMAINDER OF MONEY ON THE NOTES WHICH I NOW
HAVE ON HAND AFTER A DIVISION HAS BEEN MADE AS BEFORE
DIRECTED SUCH REMAINDER SHALL BE DIVIDED EQUALLY AMONG MY
(UNREADABLE) HEIRS AFOREMENTIONED.
I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO MY WIFE LAVESTA MCNABB AS MANY OF THE
HOGS AND LAMBS(?) AS SHE MAY THINK WILL DO HER. HAVING NO
HORSES THEREFORE WILL HER NONE.
IT IS MY WILL THAT WHEN THE BRAGDAN LEASE EXPIRES (?) IT
SHALL BE RENTED AND THE PROCEEDS THEREOF SHALL BE DIVIDED
EQUALLY BETWEEN MY WIFE AND MY SON NATHANIEL B. MCNABB AND
THAT NATHANIEL B. MCNABB SHALL ATTEND TO THE RENTING OF THE
SAME AND DIVIDING IT AS ABOVE DESCRIBED.
I WILL AND BEQUEATH TO MY TWO SONS IN LAW VIS, PRICE
(UNREADABLE) & JOHN ORTON EACH ONE DOLLAR. LASTLY I HEREBY
NOMINATE AND APPOINT JAMES H. LOWERY AS MY EXECUTOR TO THIS
MY LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT -
---
GIVEN UNDER (?) MY HAND AND SEAL THIS THE ELEVENTH DAY OF
FEBUARY ONE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED AND SIXTY ONE.
SIGNED SEALED AND DELIVERED IN
PRESENCE OF US
RICHARD MANSELL ROBERT A. LOWREY
BEN (?) T.. ZEIGLER
JAMES MCNABB
(HIS SEAL)
19
4695
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_124.txt
Nice of
In the Name of God. Amen. May the Day 17.87
Andrive Tayla of Washington State of North Carolina being
Very sick & Meak of bodi
But in perfil mind & Memory Mankey
Given to God therefore Calling to mind the Mortality get the b
and Innoving that it is Oppointed to all-
make & Ordain this my
last will and tuitement that is lose
Brisis by, & first of all. I hive and recommend my soul in
- to the Hands of
Andrew Pay for 440
kandfather of
A & Robert &
Daylor-
Governor of
buse
Augusta
Father in law of DAVID MSNABB who
married Elizabeth Taylor in
County, Virginia in 1778.
Anchew Taylor's will dtd 22 May 1787
20
ove
One to Die Do
a Christian Manner
m
Body
och
to the Earth to be buried god that heild m
-tion of the Excentory. Nothing Bouting but at the h
the same by the mighty form & God that live it
and touching; Inch Worldly Goods & state where with it bet
flowed the almighty God. to lefsome with
the like I live
Dimive and Dighove of the same in the following Manner
and form. Vy. allowing all first Betty to Be hand beh my precutor
Iljive and bequeath to Ann my beloved Wife
all mightonent
furniture three Milk Cowy; the Younge Ball Mare to beat
Mersis Deg /10 sall likewise a Negro Manch Named poll
to belonge to hun. Seeing musiker
life my
Naticall life and libre right the Dwelling House all the effect
belonging there to together with a sufficient Menteen-
and & Support. Suring her time in this life
470
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_125.txt
I've & bequests de my Beloved son soare Taylor the
vane
Just & till dem of five starling Currency thi
I Give & bequeath to my
von David McNabb.
"The Jutt full sum of five Withings. Sisting bucrainey
him & higitten. I Gurit Be
Beloved on
Andrew Taylor Thing Hing. Met The Staff by the Frank of
Land that I Swilith. now on to be Equally, Divided in
Quantity
and Quallity. biloin my son Andrew & Nathannel to Be Sided-
Gffarty. may Answer Be Nation of
byrosine of a Move desimbed to any von.
Bividing.
Andalid may Have the sheer End of the track ſomning bunnen
:hang line Sheepting the temperovement. which I nesuve During
The Naturrall life of any Wife not Refering to the Improvemt
thamyon Andrio now war Made When Said Sand Comme to be
Divided the thall consider the Land Inhoved to be as Land not
Improved. & Cultivated but as Word Landis to be Divided Equally
Quantity
I. Qualtity, as if the Landthen war In Re
Shive & Bequents to my Relovedton Millher. Tarpor Cordis
fever Handled fortyfinga hand being the sound that
by Meracie of the tortil
موم ہے اسکو
471
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_126.txt
I give & Bequents to my Beloved sonathan Tayl
This Henry & afsigne the Half of the Tree of land
thall I now Savilleth on to be equally Divided betoon my son
Nathaniel & Andrew. A before Beseitbed own
with Everything of Unity belonging to Said Mazzon
likewise all Monty if Habandry to me in any Man & form
all Fork of
Vitongong lake when Losive and cont
Horse Creations I lettill belonging to me be
Beloved Wife to the
Willed to my son Matthew & my Belov
myson
foursand Son Nathamed Jay to and I leteche do love
"I bequeath to the shore and for Nathamel ne stift
Lobbistite
that now is in the Hand of Matthew best bit
for the use of the foamely; to my Younger Child Who day
be if lege then to belong to Said Nathanuel Taylortre
So give Kavics
Afnew on's Nathanael. Tay con
"toke
Stennements in any Marnen & form belonging to me
not Refering to Land allready milled to my
thatthere and to do give into the afore and son Nathannel
Shoehagall, my flock of theas, now belonging
Layer
to me & liker je all the Speace Indents to the Use of the mites
liberose 280 Give to my horisoid for Nathamed
472
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_127.txt
a
Note for Six Hundred & Senly Waght of salt to be Affelged
to the Uhr of the pamay My Aponais Beloviston
Nathannel Tüngton is so find a defficient. Mentoring & Porſchern.
for my Beloved Wife During her life & Where
Asefficient Support & Montannan for my two Dangletag.
Recheitha & Rhoday i likerse a Lufficient support for a
Negro Mench Named poll them Issue to Gethin will the
Chatd. the Negro Mench huy now to the Younge Child Rhoday Come
z
Age. IBo Give I begirath to my beloved Daughter Rebacka
Taylor and the Hump of her Body, Ane Myro Bay Narned Harry
and if my serio Daughter Ribacka Taylor Shark. Die without
any of the
har Con Body the said Neges Bay Harry. Ball Bead
Na
fremmedanchater back
Ongalore to my son Nattcam Tuy contin
and if the said Negro Bay Hany Should Die
on the theage gomops & augeter Bubrika Taffio. Rin Bri
Hey of her Don Body.
of the Ilone
shall be Vestitted to. Pe Ch
of Nesso Child
of the Negro Mench poll if the dover after this shouts have
any Shive I Bequeath to my Beloved Saughter Whoday Taylor
One Niger Mandr Named poll after the De
hur ben Bedi
and ſmo Daughter Be the Sage of my B
Be of Wench to send to
& liberche donge Negro Child
brugter Ahday
is the Horn Mould have more than
Der with all desime to my son Nathaniel on his f
and the His Own Ozod
Fias
aying and if my daughter Rhoday Thous
bills
in wrthout
of Herbin May the Mero Winst Boll & the Said,
if ny hats Duing to my son Nathamel
473
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_128.txt
Back-Country Victory
harles Cornwallis, given command in the South,
in South Carolina in the spring of 1780. Then, on
August 16, he tightened his grip on the state at
Camden by routing Horatio Gates and a makeshift
army of Rebel militia, who "ran like a Torrent and
bore all before them." Alexander Hamilton com-
mented acidly that Gates' precipitous flight did
"admirable credit to the activity of a man at his
time of life."
Planning to expand his operations northward,
Cornwallis sent his left wing, a Tory force under
Patrick Ferguson, to sweep the interior of the Caro-
linas. On October 7 it was attacked at King's
Mountain by what Ferguson called "back water
men. . . a set of mongrels" under Isaac Shelby and
John Sevier. The rugged pioneers killed Ferguson
and knocked out eighty per cent of his command, a
crushing defeat which disabused Cornwallis of any
ideas of taking North Carolina in 1780.
The "over-mountain men" from the Watauga settlements rendez-
voused at Sycamore Flats (above) before marching on the Tory
force at King's Mountain. The Tories fired too high at the at-
tackers charging up the hillside (below) and were overwhelmed.
526
474B
339
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_129.txt
KINGS
WATAUGA
AREA
MTN
GOWPENS
N. '81
NINETY-SIX
ALLIS PUI
UES GREENE
KING'S MYN
OCT.
CHARLOTTESVILLE
DAN
RIVER
ELK HILL
Charlie
BRITISH RAIDS
RICHMOND
GUILFORD COURT HOUSE
MARCH 1
PETERSBURG
WILLIA
Lonming
R
GREENE
TAKES COMMAND
DEC.. SPLITE
HIS FORCE
RAMSAY'S Mich
GREENE
GREEN
CHERA
80 HOBKIRK'S HILL ABR.
CAMDEN
HIGH HILLS
AUGUSTA
GRANBY
ORANGEBURG
South Park
EUTAW
SPRINGS
SEPT. '81
BEAUFORT
OF SANTEE
1781
GEORGETOWN
MONCKS
CORNER
WILMINGTON
A MAP
those
AND ROCHAMBEAU
CHESAPEAKBAY
M. FROM NEWPORT
NORFOLK
CORNWALLIS
WITHDRAWS
SMOUTH
TO YORKTOWN
TAKEN BY BRITISH Virginia North Carolina South
MAY '80
which were
rens of the
most important Operations
CHARLESTON
AT END OF 1781
BRITISH HOLD ONLY
CHARLESTON AND SAVANNAH
TAKEN BY BRITISH DEC. '78.
SAVANNAH
Pe House,
FRENCH ATTACK FAILS
SEPT. OCT,, 1779
SOUTHERN ARMIES
338
The locations of the major battles and movements of the armies during the war in the South are superimposed
on this 1807 map. The routes of the British forces are shown in red, those of the Americans in blue.
474C
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_130.txt
Isane Taylor
m. Isabella Willson,
sister J.
Col. John Willson, Isove
+ Isabella Willson Taylor were parents
of Andrew Taytro. (See Below)
Wilson
& Ordain my
Andrews Taylor M. Elystett Wilem (b) & Inty friends & Jony David.
form
Exiting of this my Lust Will & testament to herty ty
Other Willy Telesom
Divaller Beheshe and Seanull all&.
story by one to any vis
Jase III
ท
1. Sarah
An Jew II
Matthew Elizabeth
m. 1786
Brot Sistag
Cunningham Satella,
2. Elizabeth maltabb,
Brown
6.1767
M. 1778
WMENABB
13 chilchen, one
of whom
Nathaniel
Taylor McHall
6.5 Feb 1783
Anchew Taylor M (2nd) Ann Wilson (the
sister of his just wife)
(sement)
Nathaniel.
m.
Mary
Patton
Rebecca
Williams
m
(Col John Willson
father of
Rhoda
m.
Williams
I bothers I
was
th
both Elizabeth Wilson
+ her sister, Ann Wilson.)
In
Lege ung and Reg, seat and Exact by m
Before Named Milled & the queathed Battifying comforming
my Last. Will.&lists Other
Men have somente fat my hound and biet N
Year fruit Above Written
:
Ligned Lealed soublehed sonund
Becleaned by the said
Interlined before signed
Jolm Flyber
William English
Andrew Taylor
474
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_131.txt
The Overmountam Men
early Tennessee history A
1760
1795
by Pat Alderman
illustrations
Buckner
DAVIDSON
M NAB B
Bernie Andrews
Kenneth Ferguson
Edyth Price
John Allen Maxwell
Robert Pannel
William Bowman
Battle of King's Mounta
1780
Published by The Overmountain Press, Johnson City, Tennessee - Price $10.00
Copyright 1970
By The Overmountain Press
P.O. Box 126
Johnson City, Tenn.
All rights reserved
Printed in USA
475
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_132.txt
King's Mountain Soldiers
An incomplete listing of the officers and men that participated in the King's Mountain Campaign
Rank listed is at time of battle. Keys: (K) _ killed, (W) _ wounded, (?) _ no proof
Allen, Richard, Captain
(Stayed with footsoldiers)
Anderson, George, Major
Anderson, John Jr. Lieutenant
Andrews, John, Lieutenant
Arbunkle, Mathew, Captain
Barnes, Alexander, Captain
Bartlett, William, Lieutenant
Barnett, Alexander, Captain
Barton, John, Captain
Barry, Andrew, Captain
Beattie, John, Lieutenant (k)
Beattie, William, Captain
Beattie, David, Captain
Bean, Jesse, Captain
Bean, William, Captain
Beverly, John, Captain
Blacock, Samuel G., Major
Blackburn, William, Lieutenant (k)
Blackmore, William, Lieutenant
Bishop, Levi, Lieutenant
Boyd, John, Lieutenant
Bowen, William, Captain
Bowen, Arthur, Captain
Bowen, Reese, Lieutenant
Brandon, Thomas, Colonel
Brandon, John, Captain
Boran, Baile, Lieutenant
Bradshear, Samuel, Captain
Bradshear, Robert, Captain
Breckenridge, Alexander, Captain
Breckenridge, Robert, Captain
Brown Jacob, Captain
Brown, John, Captain
Brown, Andrew, Captain
Buckner, Joshua, Lieutenant
Black, Joseph, Lieutenant
Caldwell, Samuel, Captain
Caldwell, Thomas, Captain
Callahan, John, Captain
Callahan, Joel, Lieutenant
Campbell, William, Colonel
(Commander in Chief)
Campbell, John, Captain
Campbell, Robert Lieutenant
Campbell, Patrick, Lieutenant
Campbell, Hugh, Lieutenant
Caruthers, Andrew, Lieutenant
Candler, William, Major
Carr, Paddy, Captain
Carter, Landon, Lieutenant
Carson, John, Captain
Christian, Gilbert, Major
Chronicle, William, Major (k)
Clark, John, Captain
Cleveland, Benjamin, Colonel
Cleveland, John, Lieutenant
Cleveland. Larkin, Lieutenant
(Wounded en route to King's Mt.)
Cloud, Joseph, Captain
Cowan, Andrew, Captain
Cowan, William, Captain
Corry, James, Lieutenant (k)
Condley, John, Captain
Colville, Andrew, Captain
Coulter, John, Captain
Cox, William, Captain
Craig, David, Captain
Craig, Robert, Captain
Crabtree, James, Captain
Crockttt, Joseph, Captain
Crockett, Walter, Major
Crockett, William, Lieutenant
Crockett, Joseph, Captain
Crow, John, Captain
Davenport, William, Colonel
Davis, John, Captain
Davis, Andrew, Lieutenant
Davison. William, Lieutenant
Davison, Daniel, Litutenant
Daugherty, George, Captain
Dickson, Joseph, Major
Dillard, James, Captain
Dryden, Nathaniel, Lieutenant, (k)
Dysart, James, Captain (w)
Duff, William, Captain
Edmondson, William, Major
Edmondson, William, Captain (k)
Edmondson, Robert Sr., Captain (k)
Edmondson, Robert Jr., Lieutenant, (w)
Edmondson, Andrew, Captain, k)
Elliot, James, Captain
Espey, Samuel, Captain (w)
Ewing, Alexander, Captain
Fapolson, Andrew, Captain
Fear, Edmond, Captain
Franklin, John, Captain
Franklin, Jesse, Captain
Forney, Peter, Captain
Fulkerson, James, Captain
Gilliespie, Thomas, Captain
Gilliespie, William, Captain
Gilliland, James, Lieutenant
Gilreath, William, Captain
Gist, Benjamin, Captain
Goff. Andrew, Lieutenant
Gordan, Charles, Major
Gray, William, Lieutenant
Hadley, Joshua, Captain
Hampton, Andrew, Colonei
Hambright, Frederick, Lieut.. Colonel
Hambright, John, Lieutenant
Hannah, Robin, Captain
Hammond, Samuel, Major
117
476
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_133.txt
King's Mountain Soldiers
Harvey, John, Captain
Hawthorne, James, Lieut. Colonel
Hayes, Joseph, Colonel
(Succeeded to Gen. Williams command)
Handley, Samuel, Captain
Hemphill, Thomas, Captain
Herndon, Benjamin, Lieut. Colonel Son
Herndon, Joseph, Major
(Remained with footsoldiers)
Hickman, James Captain
Hill, William, Colonel
(In command of Sumpter's
Hollis, John, Captain
Houston, James, Ensign
Houston, John, Ensign
Baptist I,
brother of Put
force) John
+raphers of
McCullock, Thomas, Lieutenant (k)
McCutchan, Samuel, Captain
McFarland, Robert, Lieutenant
McFerrin, John, Ensign
McKissick, David, Captain
McNabb, David, Captain
Mattox, Charles, Lieutenant
Mattox, John, Captain (k)
Martin, George, Lieutenant
Martin, Samuel, Captain
Maxwell, George, Captain
Meek, Adam, Lieutenant
Meredith, William, Captain
Miller, James, Captain
Hughes, Joseph, Lieutenant Capt John Hall Moffett, John, Captain
Isbell, Godfrey, Captain
Isbell, Zachery, Lieutenant
Jack, James, Captain
Jackson, William, Captain
Jamison, John, Lieutenant
Jernigan, George, Lieutenant
Johnson, James, Major
Johnson, John, Captain
Johnson,Samuel, Captain
Johnson, James, Captain
Johnson, Samuel, Lieutenant (w)
Johnston, William, Captain
Kennedy, Robert, Captain
Lacey, Edward, Colonel
(Commanded the Sumpter force during
battle)
Lenoir, William, Captain (w)
Leeper, James, Lieutenant
Lewis, James Martin, Lieutenant (w)
Lewis, Joel, Captain (w)
Lewis, Aron, Captain
Lewis, Micajah, Major (w)
Lewis, Joel, Lieutenant (w)
Litton, Solomon, Lieutenant
Looney, David, Captain
Looney, Moses, Lieutenant
Lowery, John, Lieutenant
Love, Andrew, Colonel
Love, William, Lieutenant
Lucas, Isaac, Captain
Lucas, Joseph, Captain
Lucas, Robert, Captain
Lusk, Joseph, Captain
Lytte, Thomas, Captain
Lyon, Huberson, Lieutenant (k)
Lane, Isaac, Lieutenant
Ledbetter, George, Captain
McDowell, Charles, Colonel
McDowell, Joseph, Major
(Commanded his brother Charles' force
during battle)
McDowell, Joseph, Captain,
(cousin)
118
Montgomery, James, Captain
Neal, William, Captain
(Stayed with footsoldiers)
Newell, Samuel, Lieutenant (w)
Nixon, John, Captain
Oglesby, William, Captain
Pemberton, John, Captain
Phillips, James, Lieutenant (k)
Pittman, William, Lieutenant
Porter, James, Major
Preston, Thomas, Captain
Rabb, William, Lieutenant
Rains, John, Captain
Reynolds, Elisha, Lieutenant
Riggs, Bethial,
Robinson, William, Lieutenant
Robinson, John, Lieutenant
Roseborough, William, Captain
Russell, George, Lieutenant
Russell, Andrew, Captain
Russell, William, Lieutenant
Sample, Samuel, Captain
Sawyers, John, Captain
Sevier, John, Colonel
Sevier, Valentine, Major
Sevier, Robert, Captain
(Mortally Wounded)
Sevier, Valentine, Captain
Scott, Joseph, Sr., Lieutenant
Shannon, Robert, Captain
Sharp, Thomas, Lieutenant
Shelby, Isaac, Colonel
Shelby, John, Captain
Shelby, Evan Jr., Major
Shelby, Moses, Captain
Sigmon, John, Captain
Singleton, Andrew, Captain
Singleton, Richard, Major
Smith, Henry, Captain
Smith, William, Captain
Smith, Henry, Captain
Smith, Miner, Captain (w)
Smith, Daniel, Captain
Smith, J. M., Lieutenant
477
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_134.txt
King's Mountain Soldiers
Snoddy, John, Captain
Steen, James, Colonel (k)
Steele, John, Lieutenant
Stinson, James, Captain
Syles, James, Captain
Taylor, Christopher, Captain
Tate, Samuel, Major
Thompson, John, Captain
Thompson, James, Captain
Tipton, Jonathan, Major
Tipton, William, Lieutenant
Trimble, Robert, Captain
Trimble, William, Captain
Topp, Roger Captain
Vance, David, Captain
Vance, John, Lieutenant
Vanhook, Samuel, Lieutenant
Wallace, Andrew, Captain
Walker, Felix, Lieut. Colonel
Walton, Jesse, Major
Watson,Patrick, Major
(Stayed with footsoldiers)
Webb, David, Captain
Weir, John, Captain
Weir, Samuel, Captain
White, Thomas, Lieutenant
White, Isaac, Captain
White, Richard, Lieutenant
White, Joseph, Captain
Witherspoon, David, Lieutenant
Wilson, Zacheus, Captain
Withrow, James, Captain
Williams, James, Colonel (k)
Williams, Joseph, Captain
Williams, Samuel, Captain
Wilson, Joseph, Captain
Wiley, Alexander, Lieutenant
Willoughby, William, Lieutenant
Wood, Samuel, Captain
Womach, Jacob, Captain
Abernathy, Robert
Adams, John
Adams, William
Alexander, Daniel
Alexander, Elias
Alexander, James
Alexander, Jerimiah
Alexander, John
Alexander, Oliver
Allen, Moses
Allen, Richard
Allen, Vincent
Allison, John (w)
Alston, William
Anderson, Jacob
Anderson, James
Anderson, John
Anderson, William
Applegate, Thomas
Arbuckle, Thomas
Arbuckle, Mathew
Armstrong, Robert
Armstrong, James
Armstrong Isaac
Armstrong Mathew
Armstrong, William
Avender, Andrew
Axer, Sam
Blackwell, David
Bacon, Michael
Baker, John
Bakly, Charles
Balch, Amos
Barker, Enoch
Barker, Joel
Barker, Henry
Barnes, Alexander
Barnes, Benjamin (?)
Barnes, Shadrack (?)
Barnett, Alexander
Bartlett, William
Barton, Benjamin
Barton, John
Barton, Joshua
Barton, Isaac
Barry, Andrew
Bean, George_
Bean, Jesse _
Bean, John -
Bean, Robert-
Beard, Robert-
Bearden, Jeremiah
Bearden, John
Beattie, David
Beattie, John (k)
Beattie, Francis
Beattie, William
Beeler, Jacob
Beeler, Joseph
Bell, Samuel
Bell, Thomas
Bell, William
Bennedict, John
Bentley, John
Berry, Bradley
Berry, James
Berry, Thomas
Ballew, Richard
Berry, Andrew
Banning, Benoni (w)
Berry, Robert
Barker, Charles
Barker, Edmond
Barker, Edward
Besall, John
Bickley, Summers
Bickley, Charles
Bicknell, James
Bicknell, Thomas (k)
Bingham, Benjamin
Biffle, Jacob
Bishop, Levi
Black, Joseph
Blackburn, Arthur
Blackburn, George
Blackburn, Joseph
Blackburn, Robert
Blackburn, John
Blackburn, William (k)
Blackmore, John
Blackmore, William
Blalock, Samuel
Blassingham, John
Blair, James
Blair, John
Blevin, Henry
Blevin, Daniel
Blyth, Thomas
Bolling, Jerry
Boran, Bazi
Boren, John
Bowen, Charles
Bowen, John
Bowen, Henry
Bowers, Leonard
Bowman, Esalus
Bowman, Sparkling
Box, Samuel
Boyer, Thomas (k)
Boyd, William
Boyd, John (k)
Boyce, John
Bradley, William (w)
Bradley, Richard
Brandon, Mathew
Brazleton, William
119
478
1
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_135.txt
VN
Brakshears, Mattis
Breckenridge, Alexander
Breckenridge, George
Breckenridge, John
Breden, John
Britt, Obediah
Briggs, John
Brimer, William
Brigham, James
Brooks, George
Brooks, Thomas
Brooks, John
Brooks, William
Brooks, David
Brooks, Moses
Broom, W. M.
Brown, John (k)
Brown, James
Brown, Low
Brown, John S. C.
Brown, Thomas
Brown, Stephen
Brown, Isaiah
Brown, Peter
Brown, George
Brown, Joseph
Brown, Michael
Browning, Enos
Bruster, E. (?)
Brush, Enoch
Buchanan, Samuel
Buchanan, Robert
Buchanan, Alexander
Budvine, Francis
Bullen, William (w)
Bullen, Isaac
Bullen, Luke
Burney, William
Burney, Simon
Burns, Laird
Burns, William
Caldwell, Samuel
Caldwell, William
Callahan, Joel
Callahan, John
- Callaway, Elijah
Callaway, Richard
Callaway, William
Camp, Thomas
Camp, Nathan
Camp, Thomas
Camp, John
Camp, Benjamin
Camp, Edmund
Campbell, Joseph
Campbell, David
Campbell, William Jr.
Campbell, Robert (w)
Campbell, Hugh
Campbell, James
Campbell, Jeremiah
Campbell, Patrick
Candler, Henry
Cantrell, Stephen
ng's Mountain Soldiers
Carmichal, John
Carmack, Cornelius
Carmack, John
Carpenter, John
Carr, Patrick
Carrol, William
Carson, Andrew
Carson, David
Carson, John
Carson, William
Carwell, Alexander
Carswell, John
Cartwright, Joseph
Carathurs, James
Cardwell, Perrin
Carter, Charles
Casewell, Zadrack
Casey, Benjamin
Casey, Levi
Casey, Randolph
Casey, William
Cash, David
Cathcart, Joseph
Castillo, John
Caunice, Nicholas
Chambers, Robert
Chapman, John
Chapman, Benjamin
Cheney, Thomas
Childers, John (w)
Childress, Mitchel
Childress, Thomas
Chisholm, John
Childress, Mitchell
Childress, William
Childress, John
Chittim, John (w)
Chitwood, James
Christian, George (?)
Clark, George
Clark, Michael
Clark, William
Clark, James
Clay, William
Clayborn, John
Clem, William
Cleveland, Ezekiel
Cleveland, Robert
Clon, William
Clowney, Samuel
Cloa, Willis
Cobb, Arthur
Cobb, Jerry
Cobb, Pharoh
Cobb, William Sr.
Cobb, William Jr.
Cockrell, John (?)
Cole, Joseph
Cole, Thomas
Cole, William
Colley, Daniel
Colley, Thomas
Collins, James
Collins, Samuel
Coleman, Spense
120
Collinworth, John
Colvill; Joseph
Colville, Samuel (w)
Compton, Jeremiah
Cook, William
Cook, Charles
Cook, Edward
Cook, Robert
Cook, Elisha
Coop, Horatia
Cope, John
Copeland, Zacheus
Corry, James (k)
Cosby, James
Costner, Thomas
Coulter, Martin
Coultrie, Robert
Covey, Samuel
Cowan, David
Cowan, James
Cowan, Andrew
Cowan, William
Cowan, Samuel
Cowan, Nathaniel
Cowan, Thomas
Cox, Charles
Cox, James
Cox, Curd
Cox, William (w)
Craig, Robert
Craig, David
Craig, James
Craig, John
Crawford, Charles
Crawford, John
Crawford, John
Crenshaw, John
Creswell, Andrew
Crock, William
Crockett, William
Crockett, Samuel
Crockett, John
Cross, Joseph
Cross, Elijah
!
Cross, Zachrack (?)
Crow, James
Crow, John
Crumbless, Thomas
Crunk, William
Culbertson, Josiah
Culbertson, Robert
Cummings, Andrew
Cunningham, Jonathan
Curry, James
Cusick, John
Cusick, George
Cutbirth, Andrew
Dalton, John
Dameron, George
Darnell, David (w)
Darnell, Cornelius
Darnell, Lawrence
David, Azariah
479
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_136.txt
King's Mountain Soldiers
Dave, Thomas
Davidson, Benjamin
Davidson, William
Davidson, Samuel
Davidson, Daniel
Davis, John
Davis, Nathaniel
Davis, Robert
Davis, Samuel
Davis, William
Davis, Joel
Davis, Nathan
Dawson, Ellas
Deatheridge, John
Delaney, William
Dennison, Robert
Depew, Isaac
Desha, Robert
Detgaoorett, John
Dickinson, Henry
Dickey, Andrew
Dickey, David
Dillard, Benjamin
Dillard, James
Dixon, Joseph
Dixon, John
Dixon, Joel
Doaling, Robert
Doherty, George Sr.
Dobkins, Jacob
Dobson, Robert
Dodd, William
Dobson, Joseph
Donald, James
Dolberry, Lytton
Doran, Alexander
Doran, James
Doran, Terence
Dorton, Moses
Dorton, William Jr.
Douglas, James
Douglas, Johnathan (w)
Douglas, Robert
Douglas, Edward
Dryden, James
Dryden, Nathaniel, (k)
Dryden, William
Duck, Samuel
Duckworth, John
Duff, David (k)
Duff, Samuel
Dunn, Samuel
Dunn, William
Duncan, Jesse
Duncan, Joseph
Duncan, John
Duncan, Thomas
Dunlop, James
Dysart, John
Eaken, William
Earnest, Earnest
Earnest, Rev. Felix
Eddleman, Peter
Edgman, William
Edmiston, Samuel
Edmiston, John
Edmiston, Thomas
Edmiston, Robert
Edmiston, William
Elder, Robert
Elmore, William
Ely, William
Enlow, Potter
England, John
England, Joseph
Estill, Benjamin
Evans, Andrew
Evans, Ardin
Evans, David
Evans, Evan
Evans, Samuel
Evans, Phillip
Everett, William
Ewart, James
Ewart, Robert
Ewing, George
Ewin, Hugh
Fagan, John, (w)
Fain, Samuel
Fain, Nicholas
Farewell, James
Farewell, John
Faris, Thomas
Faris, Isaac
Faris, John
Faris, Larkin
Faris, Martin
Faris, Richard
Farrow, Landon
Farrow, Samuel
Farrow, Thomas
Farrow, John
Fear, Thomas
Fear, Edmond
Feimster, William
Findley, John
Findley, George
Fisher, Frederick, (w)
Fitch,John
Fleenor, Charles
Fleenor, Michael
Fleenor, Joel
Flemming, John
Fletcher, Thomas
Floyd, Andrew
Floyd, John
Flower, William (w)
Folson, Andrew
Ford, John
Fork, William
Fork, Peter
Forney, Abraham
Forrister, Robert
Frazer, Daniel
Frazer, John
Frazier, Samuel
Freeman, William
Freeland, James
Frierson, Robert
Frierson, William
Frierson, Thomas
Frierson, James
Frierson, John
Frigge, John
Frigge, J. C.
Frigge, Robert
Frost, Micajah
Fulkerson, Richard
Fulkerson, John
Fulkerson, James
Fulkner, David
Furgason, James
Gaines, James Sr.
Gaines, James
Gaines, Ambrose
Galbreath, Arthur
Galbreath, Robert (?)
Galbreath, John (?)
Galliher, John
Galliher, Joel
Galloway, Alexander
Gamble, Robert
Gamble, Choat
Gamble, Josiah
Gammon, Harris
Gann, Thomas
Garner, John
Gaspenson, John
Gass, John
Gaston, William
Geren, Solomon
Gervis, James
Gibson, John
Gibson, Thomas
Gibbs, Nicholas
Giles, William (w)
Gilleland, John (w)
Gillespie, James
Gillespie, Jacob
Gillespie, Thomas
Gillespie, George
Gilliam, Devereux
Gilmer, Enoch
Gilmer, William (w)
Gist, Joseph
Gist, Joshua
Gist, Nathaniel, (k)
Gist, Richard
Given, James
Gist, Thomas
Given, John
Fowler, William (k)
Glenn, John
Godwin, Joseph
Fowler, John
Fowler, James
Fox, John
Francis, Thomas
Frazer, David
121
Godwin, Robinson
Godwin, Samuel
Goforth, Preston, (k)
Goff, Andrew
480
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_137.txt
King's Mountain Soldiers
Goff, William
Goodman, Henry
Gordon, Charles (w)
Gordon, Chapman
Gordon, George
Gorsage, John
Gourley, Thomas
Graham, James
Graham, William
Graves, Boston
Gray, James
Gray, Jessee
Grantham, Richard
Green, Jesse
Greenlee, James
Greever, Phillip
Greer,, Alexander
Greer, Andrew
Greer, William
Greer, Andrew Jr.
Greer, Joseph
Gregory, John
Grier, John
Grier, James
Griffith, Joseph
Grimes, George
Grimes, James
Guest, Moses
Gwaltney, Nathan
Hackett, John
Hadden, George
Hager, Simon
Haile, John
Hale, William
Hale, Lewis
Hall, David
Hardin, Abraham
Hardin, Joseph, Jr.
Hardin, John
Harkleroad, Henry
Harlison, Herndon
Harrell, Reuben
Harrell, John (?)
Harrell, Joseph (?)
Harrell, Kidder
Harris, James
Harrison, Gideon.
Harrison, Nathaniel
Harmison, John
Harper, Richard
Hart,, Leonard
Harwood, William
Hays, Samuel
Hayter, Israel (w)
Hedrick, William
Helms, John
Helm, Meredith (?)
Helton, Abraham
Hemphill, Charles
Henderson, John
Henderson, Daniel
Henderson, Joseph
Henderson, Robert
Henderson, William
Henderson, John
Hendrick, David
Hendrick, Solomon
Hendrick, Moses
Henegar, Henry (k)
Henegar, Jacob
Henniger, Conrad
Holdway, Timothy,
Holland, Isaac Jr.
Hood, John
Hortenstine, Abraham
Horton, Daniel (?)
Horton, Henry
Horton, Joshua (?)
Horton, John
Horton, Zephaniah (?)
Houston, William
Houston, John
Houston, James
Housley, Robert
Houghton, Thomas
Howard, William
Hubbard, James
Hudson, John
Hufacre, George
Hughes, David
Hughes, Peter
Hughes, Francis
Hughes, Thomas
Hundley, Samuel
Hunter, Thomas
Hyce, Leonard (w)
Hyden, William
Hyder, Michael
Ingle, John
Inglis, Michael
Ingram, Jeremiah
Inman, Abednego (w)
Ireland, Hans
Isaac, Samuel
Hall, John
Hall, Thomas
Hall, Jesse
Hambright, John Hardin
Hamilton, Alexander
Hamilton, Joshua
Hamby, William
Hamer, James
Hamilton, Thomas
Hamilton, John
Hamilton, Robert
Hammond, Charles
Hampton, Edward
Hampton, Jonathan
Hampton, Andrew
Henegar, John
Henry, Henry
Henry, James
Henery,, Moses (k)
Henry, Johm (k)
Henry, Joseph
Henry, Henry
Henry, Robert (w)
Henry, Samuel
Henry, Hugh
Henry, William
Hensley, Samuel
Hereden, James
Hereden, Edward
Hickman, James
Hickman, Joel
Isbell James
Isbell, Francis
Isbell, Livington
Isbell, Thomas
Isbell, Zackary
Isbell, Henry (?)
Ivy, Henry
Jack, James
Jack, Jerimiah
Jack, Patrick (?)
Jackson, Churchwell
James, John
James, Rolling
James, Marlin
Jamison, Samuel
Jamison, John
Jamison, Thomas
Hampton, John
Hampton, Joel
Handly, Robert
Handly, Samuel
Hanna, Robert
Hanna, Andrew
Hancock, Stephen
Hancock, Joseph
Hank, Michael
Hankins, Abraham
Hansley, Robert
Handy, Thomas
Hardeman, Thomas
Hickman, Thomas
Higgins, Johm
Jamison, Robert
Higgenbottom, Robert
Jarnigan, George
Jefferies, John
Jefferies, Nathaniel
Hill, James
Hillian, James
Hillian, John
Hobbs,Thomas
Hoffman, Jacob
Hoffman, John
Hotchkiss, Jared
Holloway, Charles
Holloway, John
Holloway, Benjamin
Hollingsworth, Benjamin
122
Jefferies, Jean
Jefferies, Phillip
Jefferies, Nathan
Jenkins, Jacob
Jenkins, Thomas
Jenkins, William
Jenkins, James
Jennings, David
Jernigan, Thomas
481
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_138.txt
Jernigan, William
Johnson, James S.
Johnson, Barnett
Johnson, John
Johnson, Robert
Johnson, Peter
King's Mountain Soldiers
Johnson, Samuel (w)
Jones, Daniel
Jones, David
Jones, James
Jones, John
Jones, Joseph
Jones, Joshua (w)
Judd, John
Judd, Rowland
Karr, Robert
Karr, Mathew
Keeps, James
Keele, Richard S.
Kelly, John
Kelley, William
Kendrick, Benjamin
Kendrick, Samuel
Kendrick, John
Kendricks, Solomon
Kennedy, Daniel
Kennedy, John
Kennedy, Thomas
Kennedy, Moses
Kennedy, William
Kennedy, Robert
Kendred, Thomas
Kerby, Henry
Kerr, Adam
Kerr, Joseph
Keys, James
Keys, Mathew
Kidd, John
Kilgore, Charles (w)
Kilgore, William
Kilgore, Hiram
Kilgore, James
Kilgore, Robert (w)
King, Robert
King, John
King, William
King, Andrew
Kincannon, Andrew
Kincannon, James
Kincannon, Mathew
Kindle, William
Kinkead, John
Kitchen, John
Knox, Robert
Knox, Benjamin (?)
Knox, Samuel
Knox, James (?)
Kuykendall, Mathew
Kuykendall, Benjamin
Kuykendall, Joseph
Laird, David
Laird, James, (k)
Laird, John, (k)
Lane, Isaac
Lane, Richard
Lane, Tidence
Lane, Aquilla
Lane, William
Lane, Jesse
Lane, Charles
Lane, James
Lane, John
Lane, Samuel
Landrum, James
Landrum, Thomas
Langston, John
Langston, Robert
Lankford, John
Lankford, Benjamin
Lannim, Joseph
Large, Joseph
Larrimore, Hugh
Lathan, John
Latman, Joseph
Lawson, William
Lay, Thomas
Lawson, John
Lee, James
Leeper, Samuel
Leeper, James
Leffy, Shadrack
Lengley, William
Leonard, George
Leonard, Frederick
Leonard, Henry
Leonard, Robert (?)
Lenoir, William
Lesley, Thomas
Lewallen, Michael
Lewis, James
Lewis, John
Lewis, Aron
Lewis, William Terrill
Lewis, Charles
Lindsay, James
Lindsay, John
Linn, Andrew
Linn, Daniel
Linn, William
Limonton, Robert
Litton, Catel
Litton, John
Liles, David
Liture, Harmon
Livingston, David
Logan, Joseph
Logan, William
Logan,, James
Long, John
Long, William
Long, Richard
Long, Robert
Long, Nicholas
Love, Robert
Love, John
Love, Hezekiah
Looney, Robert
Looney, John
Lowery, John
Perbelly
Lowery, William
Loyd, John
Lyle, Henry
Lyle, Samuel
Lynn, David
Lynn, Adam
Lyon, Humberson
Lyon, William
Lytle, Archibald
Lytle, Micajah
Ltyle,, William
Lyman, Jacob
Lusk, William, (k)
Lusk, Joseph
Lusk, Hugh
McAden, William
McAdoo, John
McBee, Silas
McBee, Israel
McCarthy, William
McCallister, William
McCallon, James
McCampbell, Solomon
McClelland, Abraham
McClelland, John
McClough, James
McClure, John
McConnell, Abram
McCormick, Thomas
McCormick, Joseph
McCormick, Robert
McCorkle, Francis
McCoy, Robert
McCroy, Mathew
McCroskey, John
McCulloch, John
McCutcheon, William
McCutcheon, Samuel
McCutcheon, John
McCulloch, Robert (w)
McCulloch, Thomas (k)
McDonald, Magnus
McElwee, James
McElwee, John
McElwee, William
McFarland, Robert
McFerrin, John
McFerrin, Martin
McGaughey, Samuel
McHenry, John
McJucken, Joseph
McKamey, James
McGrill, James
McGill, John
McKee, James
McKisnick, Thomas
McLain, Thomas
McLain, Alexander
McMaster, William
McLemore, John
McMillan, Alexander
McMillan, William
McMillan, Joseph
McNabb, John
DAVID Mc Natt's brother & son of Baptist I
482
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_139.txt
McNelly, John
McNutt, Alexander
McNutt, George
McPeters, Joseph
McQueen, James
King's Mountain Soldiers
McShaney, William
McSpadden, William
McWheeler, Andrew
Madonough, Andrew
Mahannas, Taploy
Mahoney, Nichael (k)
Main, Tobias
Main, Henry
Malaby, John
Manley, Amos
Manor, Josiah
Manor, Thomas
Mason, William
Maples, Marmaduke
Martin, Samuel
Martin, Salathiel
Martin, John
Martin, Robert
Martin, William
Martin, Mathew
Marshall, Marcum
Marney, Amos
Mason, Patrick
Mason, James
Mason, Thomas
Mason, Edward
Massingale, Henry
Massingale, Michael
Massingale, James
Mathews, James
Mattox, Charles
Maxwell, John
Maxwell, James
Maxwell, Thomas
May, Cassimore
May, Humphrey
May, John
Mayes, Samuel
Mayes, William
Meaden, Andrew
Meaden,, John
Meek, John
Meek, Adam
Meek, Moses
Meek, James
Mendenhall, Nathan
Metcalf, William
Miller, John
Miller, Robert (w)
Miller, John H.
Miller, Martin
Millen, John
Millon, Anthony
Miliken, James
Mitchel, James
Mitchel, Elijah
Mitchel, Edward
Moffett, John
Monroe, William
Montgomery, Richard
Montgomery, Robert
Montgomery, Thomas
Mooney, Martin
Mooney, Richard
Moore, Alexander
Moore, Thomas
Moore, John
Moore, Alexander
Moore, James
Moore, William (w)
Moore, Samuel
Moore, William
Moorehead, John
Morgan, Isaac
Morrison, Peter
Morrison, William
Mosier, Francis
Moser, Abraham
Murdoch, John
Munday, Jeremiah
Murphy, Patrick (w)
Murphy, William
Murphy, Joseph
Murphee, Henry
Murphee, John
Musick, Lewis
Nave, Abraham
Nave, Conrad
Nave, Henry
Nave, Teeler
Neal, John
Neal, Zephaniah
Neally, B.
Neally, William
Nelson, John
Nelson, Sutney
Nelson, Willam
Newell, Samuel, Sr.
Newell, Samuel Jr.
Newman, Isaac
Newman, Jacob
Newman, John
Newland, Lewis
Newland, Abram
Newland Isaac
Newton, Benjamin
Nicholas, Flayl
Nicholas, James
Norton, Alexander
Norman, William
Nuanly, Henry
O'Brien, William
Oglesby, Elisha
O'Gullion, Barney
O'Gullion, Hugh
Oliver, Dionysius
Oliphant, John
Outlaw, Alexander
Overton, Eli
Owen, John
Montgomery, Alexander
Montgomery, James
Owen, Robert
Palmer, John
Palmer, Peter
Palmer, Thomas
Panter,Adam
Parke, Ezekial
Parke, George
Parke, Henry
Parke, George
Parker, Humphrey
Patterson, Arthur (k)
Patterson, Arthur, Jr.
Patterson, Thomas
Patterson, Robert
Patterson, John
Patterson, William
Patterson, William (k)
Parry, John
Patton, Robert
Patton, Jacob
Pearce, Joshua
Peck, Adam
Peeber, Silas
Peek, Able
Peek, Adam
Peden, John
Pendergast, Garrett
Pendergrass, Alexander
Penland, Robert
Pemberton, John
Pepper, Elisha (k)
Perkins, Elisha
Perrin, Joseph
Perry, Richard
Perry, Solomon
Perry, Jesse
Perryman, Harmon
Pertle, George
Peters, William
Phillips, James
Phillips, Samuel
Phillips, Joseph
Pierce, Joseph
Pilcher, Robert
Piper, James
Pippin, Robert
Pittman, William
Pitts, Louis
Plunk, Jacob
Polk, Ezekial
Pollard, Chattam
Polson, Andrew
Porter, William
Porter, Mitchell
Porter, John
Portwood, Page
Poston, Richard
Potter, William
Prather, Charles
Prather, Thomas
Preston, Robert
Preston, Walter
Price, James
Price, Jonathan
Price, Thomas
Price, John
Price, Samuel
Pruitt, Martin
483
124
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_140.txt
ολ
Purviance, James
Purviance, William
Purviance, Richard
Pryor, Mathew
Quarles, Francis
Quarles, John
King's Mountain Soldiers
Rabb, William (k)
Rankin, William
Rankin, David
Rawlings, Asahl (?)
Reagan, Jeremiah (?)
Reamy, Daniel
Reazer, Peter
Reed, John
Reed, Benjamin
Reed, James
Reed, Thomas
Reed, William
Reed, Joseph
Reed, Samuel
Reed, David
Reep, Adam
Reed, Lovett
Reed, Abraham
Reep, Michael (?)
Regan, Charles
Reese, James
Remfeldt, Henry (?)
Reese, David
Reeves, Asher
Reeves, William
Reynolds, Asher
Reynolds, Elisha
Reynolds, Henry
Reynolds, Nathaniel
Rhea, John
Rhea, Joseph
Rice, John
Richardson, Amos
Richardson, James
Riggins, James
Ritchie, Alexander
Ritchie, Samuel
Ritchie, William
Robertson, Joseph
Robertson, William (w)
Robertson, Thomas
Robertson, William
Robertson, John
Roper, Drury
Ross, John
Ross, Isaac
Rudd, Burlington
Russell, Robert
Russell, Moses
Rutherford, Absolm
Rutherford, William
Sample, Samuel
Sawyers, John
Sarrett, Allen
Scott, Samuel
Scott, Alexander
Scott, Robert
Scott, Joseph
Scott, Joseph, Jr.
Scott, Thomas
Scott, Walter
Scott, William
Scott, Samuel Sr.
Scott, John
Scott, Arthur
Scott, James
Self, Thomas
Selman, Jeremiah
Sevier, Joseph
Sevier, James
Sevier, Abraham
Sevier, Joseph II
Sellers, James
Sharp, Benjamin
Sharp, Robert
Sharp, John
Sharp, Samuel
Sharp, Edward
Sharp, James
Sharp, Richard
Sharp, Thomas, E
Sharp, William
Shannon, Thomas
Shaver, Michael
Shaver, Paul
Shaver, Frederick
Shelby, Moses (w)
Shelby, John
Shelby, David
Shelby, Thomas
Sherrill, Samuel Sr.
Sherrill, Adam
Sherrill, George
Sloan, Alexander
Sloan, William
Sloan, John
Smart, John (k)
Smallwood, William
Smith, David
Smith, Edward
Smith, John
Smith, William
Smith, Henry
Smith, James
Smith, Obediah
Smith, Ransom
Smith, Eaton
Smith, Edward
Smith, George
Smith, Harnett
Smith, Phillip
Smith, Edward
Smith, Leighton
Snodgrass, William
Snodgrass, James
Snoddy, John
Somers, John
Sorter, William
Speltz, John
Stamey, John
Starnes, Nicholas
Steed, Thomas
Steele, William (k)
Steele, John
Steele, Samuel
Steele, Joseph
Steen, James (k)
Stellars, James
Stephens, Jacob
Stephens, Mashack
Stencipher, Joseph
Sterling, Robert
Stevenson, John
Stewart, James
Stewart, William
Stockton, John
Stockton, George
Stockton, William
Stone, William
Stone, Conway
Sherrill, Samuel Jr.
Stone, Ezekial
Roberts, David
Roberts, James
Roberts, Joshua
Roberts, Edward
Robinson, William
Robinson, Thomas
Roddy, James
Rogers, William
Rogers, Benjamin
Roler, James
Roler, Martin
Roper, Roger
Shipp, Thomas
Shirley, John
Shote, Thomas
Shook, Greenbury
Singleton, Richard
Simms, James
Simms, John
Siske, Daniel (k)
Siske, Bartlett
Skaggs, John (w)
Skaggs, Henry
Stone, Solomon
Stovall, Bartholemew
Stribling, Clayton
Street, Anthony Waddy
Sufferet, John
Sutherland, David
Swadley, Mark
Sweet, Benjamin
Sweeney, Moses
Sword, Michael
125
484
TATE
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_141.txt
Tabor, William
King's Mountain Soldiers
Taff, George
Talbert, Charles
Talbot, Mathew Jr.
Talbot, James (?)
Talbot, Thomas (?)
Tate, John
Tate, Robert
Tate, David
Tate, Samuel
Tatum, James
Tatum, Andrew
Taylor, Andrew Father of
Taylor, Andrew Jr. - Joabella
Taylor, Isaac manas dar
Taylor, James of Baptists It
Taylor, James
Taylor, Leroy
sist
DAVID
тановило
Taylor, Parmenus married
Temple, Major
Elizabeth
Templeton, John Taylor,
Terrell, Richmond
Terrell, Micajah
Анджей дой
sister,
Terrell, William
Thatcher, Benjamin
Thomas, John
Thompson, William
Thompson, Alexander
Thompson, Samuel
Thompson, John
Thurman, Phillip
Tillman, Phillip
Tinsley, Golden
Todd, James
Topp, William
Topp, Tom
Tubb, John (w)
Tucker, John
Turnley, George
Turnley, Peter
Wallace, John
Walling, William
Walton, William
Walton, Martin
Ward, David
Ward, William
Watkins, George
Watson, David
Watson, Samuel
Watson, William (k)
Weakly, Robert
Wear, John
Weaver, John
Webb, George
Weir, John
Wells, Joseph
Wells, Joseph
Welchel, John
Welchel, Francis
Welchel, David
Welchel, William
Welchel, John
White, William
White, Benjamin
White, Gordon
White, Isaac
Whitesides, John
Whit, Charles
Whitten, Solomon
Wilfong, John (w)
Williams, Benjamin
Williams, James
Williams, Phillip
Williams, Charles
Williams, John
Williams, Shadrack
Williams, Daniel
Williams, Samuel
Williams, Robert
Williams, Mathew
Willis, Smith
Williamson, John
Willoughby, William
Willoughby, Mathew
Williford, Jacob
Wilson, Robert
Wilson, Joseph
Winstead, Francis (?)
Withers, John
Withers, Elisha
Witherspoon, John
Withrow, James
Wood, Obediah
Woods, Michael
Woods, Jonathan
Woods, John
Woolsey, Thomas
Word, Charles (k)
Word, Thomas
Word, Peter
Word, John
Word, Cuthbert
Wynn, William
Wyley, John
Wyley, James
Wyley, Alexander
Yancey, Ambrose
Yates, Samuel (?)
Yeary, Henry
Yontz, George
Young, Robert
Young, Thomas of
Young, William
Young, James
Young, Isham (?)
Young, Samuel
S.C.
Trail, James
Trice, James
Turney, Peter (?)
Twitty, William
Twitty, Anthony
Utterly, William
Vance, James
Vance, John
Vance, Samuel
Waddell, Martin
Waddell, John
Waldrin, Peter
Walker, William
Walker, John
Wallace, Thomas
Painting by Valosio, depicting Greer as he barged in on Congress to
announce the King's Mountain victory. Painting hangs in Tennessee
State Museum. Courtesy Tennessee Conservationist.
126
485
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_142.txt
OFFICERS
Allison, Robert, Capt.
Buchanan, William, Capt.
Bryan, John, Capt.
Boys, William, Capt.
Chisolm, Elijah, Capt.
Carnes, John, Capt.
Cavett, Moses, Capt.
Christie, Colonel
Donelson, John, Capt.
Evans, Nathaniel, Capt.
Fain, John, Captain
Gibson, James, Capt.
Gillespie, George, Col.
Gambrel, Captain
Harrison, Michael, Capt.
Hicks, William, Capt.
Hoskins, Ninnam, Capt.
Keys, John, Captain
Kyle, Robert, Capt.
Mall, Peter, Capt.
Morgan, Charles, Capt.
McNabb, John, Capt.
Robertson, Elijah
Roddye, James, Capt.
Ridley, George, Capt.
Sherrill, William, Capt.
Shelby, James, Capt.
Smith, Ezekial, Capt.
Stewart, Thomas, Major
Wilfong, George, Major
Warren, Captain
ADDITIONAL NAMES
Adair, John
Alexander, William
Arney, Christian
Ayers, Elihu
Burus, David
Billings, Jasper
Brotherton, Thomas
Bryan, Robert
Ballard, Devereau
Barker, Hezekiah
Bickley, William
Brooks, Littleton
Beattie, Joseph
Bolick, Caspar
Bowles, Benjamin
Cavett, Richard
Condry, William
Cooper, James (k)
Cross, William
Cross, Abraham
Callaway, Joseph
Chapman, Joseph
Church, Amos
Cline, Michael
Cole, Jobe
Chandler, Bailey
Dunsmore, James
Denman, John
Dickenson, Isham
Dobson, John
Fry, Phillip
Ferguson, Joseph
Foster, Anthony
PEMBERTON OAK: Col. John Pemberton mustered
his men under this oak in 1780 enroute to King's
Mountain. Oak still stands and Pemberton
descendants still own the property. Soldiers of five
wars have camped under this tree.
Gabriel, James
Gilreath, Alexander
Goodlett, William
Gregory, William
Henry, David
Haas, John
Haas, Simon
Hahn, Joshua
Hahn, Benedict
Hammons, Benjamin
Hammons, John
Harris, William
Hofner, Nicholas
Hunt, Abraham
Hunt, John
Hardmark, Charles
Johnson, George Sr.
Johnson, William
King, Thomas
Keeton, Hezekiah
Kuykendall, Simon
Leeper, Mathew
Laws, David
Lutz, Jacob
Mitchell, David
Montgomery, John
Morgan, Benjamin
Proffit, Pleasant
Parks, John
Powell, William
Simms, Littlepage
Simpson, William
Stevenson, James
Setzer, John
Shell, Michael
Sherrill, Uriah
Sigmon, Palsor
Simpson, William
Rose, Sterling'
Rumfeld, Henry
Scurlock, James
Schultz, Martin
Smith, Jones
Smool, James
Sparks, John
Spicer, William
Stamper, Joel
Summerlin, William
Swanson, John
Smithers, Gabriel
Starnes, Peter
Toliver, Jesse
Toliver, Moses
Treadway, Robert
Tippong, Conrad
Turbyfill, John
Vickers, Elijah
Weaver, Frederick
Wall, Jacob
Wilson, Andrew
Wilson, John
Waters, Moses
Whitaker, John
Whitner, Abraham
Whitner, Daniel
White, Solomon
Yoder, Conrad
BATTLE OF
KINGS MOUNTAIN
ROBERT YOUNG GUN;
FERGUSON sword, field glasses
and sash. Tennessee State Museum,
Nashville.
Probably David McNathé uncle,
Wm. I & bother
z
son
Baptist man I
486
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_143.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME BAPTISTE MCNABB
When Born
1723
Christened
When Died Jan. 4,1784--will dated--will
When Burled
proven May 18,1784.
When Married
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) 2) etc.
Where
Where
Perthshire Scotland
Where Washington Cty, No. Car. (Now Tenn.)
Where
Where
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Goodspeed's history of East Tennessee; County Court &
land records, Augusta County, Virginia. First Ensign commission Feb. 19,
1746-47; lived in Lower Forks Community, Augusta Cty, Virginia. In Capt. John
McDowells Co. 1738-45, Augusta Cty, Va. Revolutionary War service, Battle
of Kings Mountain, 7 Oct. 1780. Baptist McNabb on 1752 Timber Ridge Church
records, Augusta Cty, Va. Ensign under Commander & Col. Patton 1752-55;
Built first Grist Mill on Buffalo Creek, Washington Cty, No. Car. now Tenn.
in 1770. Land Grant Wautauga Purchase, No. Car., 19 Nov 1775. Baptist B.
McNabb's Will written January 4, 1784, Washington Cty, No. Carolina in
His Father William McNabb of MONROE County His Mother's Maiden Name Betty Aiken (Who died in which he names his sons, John and David McNabb, as executors; proven May 8,
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Kathren
When Born May 20, 1737
Christened
When Died
When Burled
Other Husb. (any)
Number (1) (2) olc.,
Her Father
Before 1784
CHILDREN
Female (Arrange in order of birth)
F 1 Isabella
M
2 John
Хм
3
David
1784. It is recorded on Reel 169, Book or Vol. 1, pages 7-8-9, & Inventory,
dated Aug. 1784, Reel 113, Book or Vol. 00, page 19. Washington Cty, Tenn.
Available from Tennessee State Library and Archives, 403 7th Ave. North,
Nashville, Tenn. 37219-5041.
Penn Old DAN'S bury, now
Monroe County, Penn.
STROUDSburg, Penn.
Where Augusta Cty, Virginia
Where
Where
Washington Cty nc/Tenn
Date
Where
Compilers
W.C.Davidson
Note Baptiste qualified
Ensign of
Fost on Feb 19, 19:46/47
Her Mother's Maiden Name
WHEN BORN
Üsy
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Tow or Place
County
State or
Country
ca 1767
1757
22Feb.1755 Augusta Cty, Va.
WHEN DIED
Day Month
Address 1309 East Brown St.,
City
Year
Tenn
1840
13 May 1826
CarterCtyTN
Llano, Texas 78641-2405
Married
Date 1786 Washington Cty, NC
To Andrew Taylor2
Date
To Mary (?) Augusta, Va.
Date 1778 Rockbridge, Va.
To
Date .
To
Elizabeth Taylor
possibility, even Date _____
probability, that Wm. was
not a son of Baptists.
M
5 William (Will Recorded in Carter Cty, Town, dTd 16 May 1809) There is a
F
Mary
M
Jane
7
=
487
They had 4 chilchen, 1. DAVID,
<
To Elizabeth DRYDEN 2. William, 3. BAPTIST 4. Nancy (manabb)
Jackson,
Dau.
of
David and
Worthy Wayden
M James (Jonathan)
F Margaret
F
Katrin (Spelled so in Baptist's
10
11
12
13
Will)
Date
1785
To
Morgan
Date
1795
То
John. mc Collem
Date
To
Date
To..
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_144.txt
CHRONICLES
OF, THE
Scotch-Irish Settlement.
IN
VIRGINIA
EXTRACTED FROM THE ORIGINAL COURT RECORDS OF
AUGUSTA COUNTY
1745-1800
BY
LYMAN CHALKLEY
DEAN OF THE COLLEGE OF LAW OF KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY, LATE JUDGE OF THE
COUNTY COURT OF AUGUSTA COUNTY, VIRGINIA
Published by
MARY S. LOCKWOOD D
orary Vice-President General, National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution
COMPLETE IN THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME I.
PRINTERS:
THE COMMONWEALTH PRINTING Co."
ROSELYN, VA
PROCESSIONERS' REPORTS
In order to define and settle the boundaries of the various plantations
in the community the Vestry for the county and parish appointed processioners
to go upon the land and make report on the conditions as they found them.
For the Forks community Joseph Long and Richard Woods were appointed
in 1747. And for the territory from North Branch to Andrew Baxter's and John
Hays' Mill Alex. McClure and Robert Huston were appointed. No report was
made by Long and Woods, but McClure and Huston reported in 1748 for
William Hall, Robert Allison present; John McNabb, Baptist McNab present; Li
Robert Huston; Charles Hays; William Givens; John Stevenson; Andrew
Baxter, Nathaniel Evans present; Alex. McCleary, Moses Whiteside present;
Mathew Lyle, John Lyle present; John Gray, Mathew Lyle present; John
Peter Sally, Michael Finney present; John Paul, Roger Keys present. These
were some of the nearest neighbors on the north, except John Peter Sally whose
land was near the mouth of North Branch on both the east and west sides.
There was to be paid to the person and persons who should make or cause to
be made, hemp, winter or water-rotted, dry, bright and clean, a reward of
four shillings for every gross hundred of hemp made as aforesaid, the hemp to
be received by an official appointed for that purpose and a certificate issued
for a warrant for the bounty. In 1767 and 1768 such certificates were issued
to Edward Sharp, Israel Christian, James Montgomery, Joseph Love, William
Christian, David Cloyd, Margaret Robinson, David Robinson, James Lauder-
dale, John Buchanan, Baptist McNabb, Andrew Woods, Andrew Lewis,
James, Robert, William and George McAfee, Robert Breckenridge, William
Preston, James Campbell, Francis Smith.
488
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_145.txt
Lyman CHALKLEY'S references to Baptist McNabb, born in Glendochart, Scotland
in 1723, parents were William McNabb and Betty (Aiken) McNabb.
February 18, 1746/47
*(151) James Connerly, charged with felony in stealing deer skins--
acquitted; but convicted of killing 38 red deer contrary to law and fined,
and being a vagrant person, put under recognizance. Joseph Lane and Baptist
McNabb securities. (25)**
February 19, 1746/47
(153) Baptist McNabb qualified Ensign of Foot. (25)
Page 267.-21st May 1747. (land is on) corner to Baptist McNabb. (page 260)
Page 14.-12 April 1748....; 20th January 1747/48, processioned for John
McNabb and Baptist McNabb present; (Page 433) (John McNabb was a brother of
Baptist McNabb%; John was born in Glendo chart, Scotland.) (
Page 425.-27th August 1751. Joseph Love and Margaret, to Baptist McNabb, 171
acres on Rentfroe's br. of Goose Creek, Rentfroe's line; corner George
Robinson. Also 137 acres on Robinson's Br. of Roanoke%; corner Bryan Cuff;
corner Stephen Rentfroe. (Page 297)
Deed Book No. 4
Page 48.-26th November 1751. Borden deed...Teste: Baptist McNabb. (Page 299)
Page 36.-23d March 1753. Halberd McClure's will,....Teste: Baptist
McNabb...(Page 34)
Page 151.--1755: David Dryden and Wm. Hall processioned as follows, viz:
..25 names...for Isaac Taylor...15 names...for Baptist McNabb..10 more
names. (Page 441)
Page 286.-1760. Processioned by Samuel Lyle, Wm. Lusk: For....Baptist
McNabb....for Isaac Taylor... (Page 464)
Page 123.-22d January 1761. David Miller to Robert Brackenridge deed....
joining lands of Baptist McNabb. (Page 366)
Page 18.-5th February 1761. Nathaniel McClure's will...Will proved 19th
May 1761. Administration granted widow Mary...Baptist McNabb. (Page 62)
Page 34.-17th November 1761. Baptist ( ) McNabb and Catherine to John Nealey,
(British Pounds) 155, 171 acres on Rentfroe's Branch of Goose Creek;
Rentfroe's line, cor. George Robinson; also 137 acres on Robinson's Branch
of Roanoke; cor. Bryan Cuff; cor. Stephen Rentfroe; cor. George Robinson and
Rentfroe's tract. (Catherine or Kathren is Baptist McNabb's wife.) (Page 378)
Page 510.-14th May 1762. John Macky deed..., cor. Baptist McNabb. (Page 388)
Page 154.-20th May 1762. Settlement of Stophel White's estate...Baptist
McNabb. (Page 70)
Page 240.-10th March 1767. David Miller deed...Baptist McNabb's line. (Page 451)
Page 45.-24th August 1767. Settlement of McClure's estate. Recorded on motion
of Baptist McNabb. (100)
March 16, 1768
(500) Hemp certificates: Baptist McNabb, James Crockett....Elizabeth
Taylor. (Page 145)
(504) Road to be viewed by Peter Wallace....James McNabb...from William
Hall's Mill to Wm. McKee's. (Page 145)
Page 200.-11th May 1772. Baptist ( ) McNabb and Kathren ( ) to Moses
Cunningham, of Botetourt County. Teste: Andrew Hays, Robert Tedford,
Andrew McCampbell. (Page 519)
*These page numbers refer to the page in the Augusta County, Virginia records
in the Courthouse in Staunton, Virginia.
**These page numbers, at the end of each item, refer to the page in Chalkley
on which the item is found.
Page 154. 20th May, 1762. Settlement of Stophel White's estate by
Jacob Anderson, recorded-Funeral charges, viz: 1 shirt, £1, 0, 0; muslin:
for a cale, £5, 0; 1 sheet, 5 yds., £17, 6; 74 gallons liquor, £1, 3, 3; 6 lbs.
cheese, £3.9; bords and cofen and nails; £13, 6; 1½ bu. flour (75 lbs.),
£7, 3; 6 lbs. for shortening for said bisket, f0, 3, 5; vendue liquor, 2 gals,
1 pt., £6, 4. Paid James Arbuckle, David Galloway. Stophel White's
vendue, sold to viz: David Drein, Jacob Anderson, Alex. Miller, Isaac An-
derson, Marion Crawford, Alex. Telford, David Dryden, Baptist McNabb,
David Telford. Typical Scottish Funeral????
489
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_146.txt
sons, Thos.
.1 Garrison,
the rest of
gomery.
River from
ue Ridge-
nd his sons,
e Ledfords,
an, Francis
hn Mason,
ns, Mathu-
er, candles,
Attorneys'
bacco each,
from Wm.
tithables,
or to take
son bounds
mes Hous-
- Adultery.
eers from
Cober's to
vil
gman
Chalkley's Records
Augusta Co. A
Page
Courthouse.
NOVEMBER 22, 1746.
(142) Commission to examine records.
(142) Posts of directions to be set up on roads.
(142) Road ordered from Co. Ho. to Timber Broge (Ridge?)..
(144) James Fowler vs. Saml. Givens.
Deft. pleaded-Plaintiff's own assault.
Plt. replied-Defendant's own wrong.
FEBRUARY 18, 1746/7.
(151) Ro. McMahon-garnishee.
(151) James Connerly, charged with felony in stealing deer skins-
acquitted; but convicted of killing 38 red deer contrary to law and fined,
and being a vagrant person, put under recognizance. Joseph Lane and
Baptist McNabb securities.
(151) Andrew Baxter, nearly eighty, to be levy free.
(151) Robert King to build a water mill.
(151) John Ruddle to build a water mill.
(151) Henry Guy to build a water mill.
(152) James Allison, to build a water mill.
(152) John Stevenson qualified Lieut. Foot.
(152) Adam Harman qualified Captain Foot.
(152) John Edwards qualified Under Sheriff.
(152) John McCown, Michael Finney, Thos. Williams, appointed Con-
stables in Forks of James-precincts to be laid off by Richard Burton.
FEBRUARY 19, 1746/7.
(153) Baptist McNabb qualified Ensign of Foot.
(153) Adam Dickerson to build a water grist mill.
(153) Wm. Aylett, John and Henry Guy to appraise Crockett's estate.
(153) Abraham Drake chose Thomas Grubbs guardian.
(153) Administration of Abraham Drake's estate committed to Thos.
Grubbs, guardian of Abraham Drake, son of Abraham Drake. John Davis,
Alexr. Mathews, Daniel Stover and George Leath, appraisers.
(153) Ro. McClenahan-Ordinary license in County.
(154) Catherine Cole, servant of David Stuart.
(154) Wm. Aylett, Thos. Symster, Wm. Ayler and John Guy, appraisers.
(154) Ulrich Kyhner to build a mill at the narrow passage, rejected.
(154) John Hodge, leave to build a mill.
(154) Catherine Quin, recognized on charge petty larceny.
(155) Lucus Morgan (servant of Wm. Miller) imported from Ireland
under 19 years and in this Colony above 6 months.
(158) Jurymen-Wm. Elliott, Joseph McClelhill, Andrew Nutt.
(159) When Church Wardens are chosen they are to bind out Wm.
Anderson.
25
490
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_147.txt
Page 238.-10th February, 1746-7. Jost Hite, Ro. McCay, and Robert
Green to John, James and Moses Green, £100; 500 acres on Linwell's
Creek being lot 4, part of 7,009 acres patented, &c., 1739. Witnessed and
proved as above.
Page 243.-3d October, 1746. Same parties as above, £100; 708 acres
patented to grantors, 26th March, 1739; on side of Limestone Hill, near
easternmost branch of Linwell's Cerek. Teste: W. Russell, G. Jones, Wm.
Green. Proved, 21st May, 1747, by Russell and Jones.
Page 247.-5th August, 1746. Robert McCay and Robert Green to Jost
Hite, £100; 545 acres, part of 7,009 acres including lot 8. Witnessed and
proved as above.
Page 251.-7th August, 1746. Same parties as above, £100; 500 acres,
part of 7,009 acres including lot 6. Witnessed and acknowledge as above.
Page 255.-11th February, 1746-7. Robert McCay to James Robinson,
£40; 400 acres on Linwell's Creek, whereon the said Robinson lives being
lot No. 1, part of 7,009 acres, &c.; mouth of Linwell's Creek and North
River. Teste: G. Jones, Peter Scholl, Thomas T. Milseph (Milsaps).
Poved by all, 21st May, 1747.
Page 259.-1st May, 1747. James Rentfroe, of Lunenburg County, to
Archibald Graem (Gream), of Augusta, f-
148 acres patented to
current money Virginia;
James Rentfro, Esther Rent fro.
28th September, 1745; near Buffalo Creek.-
Shirkey, James Mountgomery. Proved by first two witnesses, 21st May,
Teste: Robert Mountgomery, Patrick
1747, and by last 18th May, 1749.
Page 263.-21st May, 1747. James Bell to Thomas Armstrong, £20 cur-
rent money Virginia; 400 acres on a branch of Cathey's River called
Jennings Branch. Teste: Andrew Cowen, James Bell, Jr.; Thos. Rut-
lidge. Acknowledged, 21st May, 1747. Rachel releases dower.
Page 265.-21st May, 1747. Benj. Borden, &c., to Nathaniel McClure
(sold in testator's lifetime); 180 acres, £5.7.6, part of 92,100 acres patented,
&c., on North River, Worm Run; corner to Moses McClure, on east branch
of Mill Creek. Teste: Jno. Bramham, Jr.; Thos. Gorden, John Finley.
Acknowledged, 21st May, 1747.
Page 267-21st May, 1747. Benj. Bordin, &c., to John McKay (sold in
testator's lifetime); 390 acres, £19 current money Virginia, part of 92,100;
north side Mill Creek; corner to Baptist McNabb. Witnessed and acknowl-
edged as above.
Page 209.-21st May, 1747. Benj. Bordin, &c., to Robert Allison (sold
in testator's lifetime); 279 acres, 2 R., 36 P., £8.5.0 current money Virginia,
part of 92,100; north branch of James; corner to Halbert McClure, James
Thompson's land. Witnessed and acknowledged as above.
Page 272.-21st May, 1747. Benjamin Bordin, &c., to David Dryden,
tailor (sold in testator's lifetime); 130 acres, 2 R., 14 P., £3.16.0 current
money Virginia, part of 92,100; line of John Pattison's land; corner to
Wm. Baskins. Witnessed and acknowledged as above.
Page 275-26th May, 1747. Robert Renick, of Augusta, yeoman, to
James Miles, farmer, £10; 201 acres on Buffalo's branch, part of the land
Robert now lives on. Teste: James Sayers, Francis ( ) Gardner, James
Trimble. Acknowleged, 17th June, 1747, by Robert, and dower released by
Elizabeth.
260
.491
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_148.txt
V.2
Robert Christian and James Caldwell, from William Ledgerwood's in a line
as low as John Madison's, thence to Samuel Davis's, near the South Moun-
tain; John Linn and Robert Young, from Buffalow Gap as low as John
Madison's, from thence as high as Ledgerwood's; James Hogshead and John
Moffett, from Buffalow Gap to Walter Trimble's, from thence to Alex.
Blair's, thence to John Finla's; Thomas Stevenson and David Edmonston,
from Alex. Blair's to Capt. Samuel Gay's; Edward Erwin's and Wm. McGill,
from Alex. Blair's to Samuel Wilkin's. thence to Henry Smith's; Wm.
Thompson and Samuel Givens, from Samuel Wilkins to Capt. Henry
Downs's, Jr.; Robert Craven and Thomas Harrison, from Samuel Wilkins'
to the lower end of the Great Plain to Fairfax's line, thence with the said
line to the South Mountain; Daniel Haldman and John Riddle, from Fair-
fax's line to the Narrows and across to the North Mountain; Mathias Selzer
and Abraham Shickler, from Fairfax's line to the extent of the County
between the two mountains; Daniel Harrison and Morgan Bryan, from
Samuel Wilkins' to the Great Plain to Lord Fairfax's line, thence with the
said line to Henry Smith's; John Denton and Abraham Collet, from the
Narrows to the extent of the County from mountain to mountain; Wm.
McCutchen and James Carlile, Sr., on Little River of Calf Pasture, and the
Great River below Dunlap's Gap; Thomas Weams and John Graham, from
Dunlap's Gap, including all the waters of Great Calfpasture.
Page 11--21st September, 1747: Parish Levy laid, 1,670 tithables at 6
shillings per pole. Commissioners to purchase a Glebe ordered to meet next
Monday at James Lockhart's to make the purchase. Church Wardens to
advertise and let the buildings in November next. Mr. Lockhart objects to
the allowance to Mr. Hindman (his salary as being too little, viz: £50).
Page 14.-12 April, 1748: Processioners' Returns: Robert Huston and
Alex. McClure: Processioned for Wm. Hall, Robert Allison present; 20th
January, 17+7-8, processioned for John McNab, Baptist McNab present;
20th January 1747-8, processioned for Robert Huston; 28th January, 1747-8,
processioned for Charles Hays, Andrew Hays present; processioned for
Wm. Givens, Andrew Hays present; 29th January, 1747-8, processioned for
John Stevenson, Andrew Stevenson present; 29th January, 1747-8, process-
ioned for Andrew Baxter, Nathaniel Evans present; 29th January 1747-8,
processioned for Alex. McCleary, Moses Whiteside present; 30th January,
1747-8, processioned for Mathew Lyle, John Lyle present; 30th January,
1747-8, processioned for John Gray, Mathew Lyle present; 12th February,
1747-8, processioned for John Pater Sally, Michael Finney present; 10th
March, 1747-8, processioned for John Paul, Roger Kays present.
Page 16.-12th April, 1748: John Montgomery and Francis McCown:
12th January, processioned for Patrick Hays; 12th January, processioned for
Samuel Dunlap, Pat Hays present; 12th January, processioned for Wm.
Lockridge, Samuel Dunlap present; 18th January, processioned for James
Archer, Richard Cousor present; 18th January, processioned for Wm. Mc-
Canless, Robt. Dunlapp present; Jno. Lowry, Robt. Dunlapp present; Robt.
Dunlapp, Robert Lowry present; 14th January, processioned for Samuel
Anderson, Wm. McCanless present; Ceo. Henderson, Ro. Lowry present;
Wm. Mitchell, Jas. Moore present; 15th January, processioned for Wm.
Cowdon, Robert Bags present; Francis McCown, John Downy present;
James Moore, Alexander Walker present; James Robinson, Jas. Walker
433
492
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_149.txt
te: James Magill,
1, William Downen.
Gray, 270 acres on
ert Husten's line;
Ramsey. This is
. John Lynn, aged
:. Teste: Mathew
ent., and Jane, to
of 947 acres from
r, John Thompson
derson's line; cor-
n, 300 acres, part
Imer; corner Alex-
June, 1756.
= and Madison) to
cres, part of Mill
se stands; corner
ewis's lot, 99-year
m B. Thompson.
ader Wright, mer-
; Maxwell's line.
Agatha, to Robert
Beverley in Bev-
5; corner Adam
Madison) to John
cres Mill tract in
and 11 in Staun-
merine, to Nathan
lives, Pessimmon
= McClure.
- to Nathan Mc-
■. Teste: James
ances, to Robert
O, on Mill Creek;
d Dryden; corner
Jane, to William
ugusta, deceased,
rn Neck Grants,
hos. Bragg.
ah, to John Wil-
888 acres on So. Riv. Shannandore, on a branch called Mill Creek; cor-
er Christofell Franciscus. Teste: Henry Dickins and Evan Evans.
Page 417.-Same to Henry Beevey, 550 acres, a branch of So. Riv. Shan.,
called Mill Creek; corner Robert Hooks. Teste: Jacob Nicols (?), Henry
Dickins.
Page 421.-27th August, 1751. John Lynn and Naomie, to Robert Shank-
, 320 acres on No, River Shan, joining Robert Scott, Stoney Lick Branch.
Teste: Robt. Hook, Patrick Wilson.
Page 425.-27th August, 1751. Joseph Love and Margaret, to Baptist
McNabb, 171 acres on Rentfroe's br. of Goose Creek, Rentfrow's line; cor-
er George Robinson. Also 137 acres on Robinson's Br. of Roanoke; corner
Bryan Cuff; corner Stephen Rent froe.
Page 430-24th August, 1751. Andrew Johnston to David Stewart,
Gent., 218% acres. From John Maxwell; corner Robert McClenachan
(formerly John Madison's land); corner Robert Breckinridge (formerly
John Maxwell's land). Teste: John Harman, Audley Paul, Pat. McCluskey,
Mary Paul.
Page 434-27th August, 1751. Daniel McNare to David Sayers, 23 acres
Mid. Riv. Shanandore; patented to Daniel, 20th September, 1748.
Page 438.-27th August, 1751. Jacob Clemence and Mary, to John Camp-
bell, 202 acres on Calf Pasture where Jacob lives; corner Wm. Campbell.
Teste: Thomas Gillham, Loftes Pullin.
Page 442-21st August, 1751. John Lockhart and Rebecca, to David
Hayes, 202 acres in Beverley Manor; Robert Ramsey's line.
Page 445.-27th August, 1751.
Borden & Co. to John Davison, 353%
acres of 92100, Isaac Taylor's line.
Page 448.-28th August, 1751. Wm. Campbell and Sarah, and Robert
Grey and Margaret, to Thomas Gillam (Gillham), 200 acres, Calfpasture
where Wm. and Robert live. Delivered: Thomas Adam, 2d September,
1774.
Page 453-27th August, 1751. David Hay, yeoman, and Jane, to Wil-
liam Thompson, weaver, 306 acres, Christian's Creek, sold by Beverley to
Joseph Reed, taylor, 23d July, 1740; 25th September, 1741. Corner John
Buchanan; David Moor's land; James Robinson's line; Charles Campbell's
line; Patrick Campbell's corner.
Page 457.--August, 1751. Andrew Pickens to William McPheet-
ters. Power attorney to convey 211 acres to John McPheetters.
Page 460.-27th August, 1751. William Smith and Jane, to Daniel Kid-
ney, 135 acres in Beverley Manor, Christie's Creek; George Hutcheson's
line. Teste: Robt. Turk, John Anderson, Saml. Henderson. Delivered:
Daniel Kidd, 16th June, 1756.
Page 464. 30th May, 1751. Joseph Teas to Archibald Stewart, con-
tracting, mauling and laying 6700 rails, building a log house, clearing and
plowing 20 acres, from Beverley to Teas, 5th June. 1739. Beverley Manor,
469 acres. Teste: Edward Hall, Thomas Stewart, William Patterson.
Page 466.-27th August, 1751. Borden, etc., to Francis Beaty, 265 acres
of 92100; corner John Kerr, Beverley Manor line, including Flatt Spring,
otherwise called Beaty Spring (Spring Beatey).
Page 469.-15th August, 1751. Christophel Francisco, farmer, of Lancas-
ter Co., Pennsylvania, to son, Stophel Francisco, of same place. Power at-
397
493
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_150.txt
Ludwick Francis-
eper, farmer, 227
3.
Thomas Black-
Beverley to Wm.,
's line; William
, Jno. Christian.
o Wm. Kerr, 188
Im., and by Wm.
Pendelton and
I wife of Michael
of Culpeper, for
1751.
artha Alexander,
ong Glade; cor-
768.
hristian (tiana)
River of Shan-
Ann, to Henry
arah, to Henry
e: Felty Pence,
to Samuel Bra-
rner Brownlee;
Jno. Mitchell,
1 of New Cas-
ames called the
gnes Welch.
d Madison) to
chanan's Mill
uchanan land;
Lynn.
,
400 acres on
Naked Farm.
elivered: Wm.
e, by house of
her witnesses,
ek, Clearland
DEED BOOK No. 4.
First Deed Recorded 26th November, 1751; Last Deed Recorded 15th
November, 1752.
Page 3.-26th November, 1751. Robert Remick and Elizabeth, to Fran-
cis McCewn, yeoman, 300 acres on Cedar Creek of James River, at a place
called Timber Plain; corner John Poack. Teste: Jnc. Archer, Wm. Lusk,
Joseph Lang. Delivered: Francis McKown, 19th May, 1752.
Page 7.-Richard Burton (Bortoo), Gent., and Ann, to James Davis,
400 acres on Buffalo Creek, joining Borden; corner Richard Wood. Teste:
James McAfee, James Neelly.
Page 12.-14th October, 1751. Wm. Sayers of Craven Co., S. Ca., to
David Miller, 290 acres, Buffalo Creek. Teste: Michael Finney, Geo. Wil-
son, William Carlile.
Page 16.-5th October, 1751. John Lynn to Robert Shanklin, 320 acres
on No. River Shanandoe, joining Robert Scott, Stony Lick Br. Teste:
Thomas Shanklin, Robert Hook, Thos. Shanklin, Jno. Stephenson.
Page 20.-24th September, 1751. William King, blacksmith, and Mary
Ann, to John Nichol, 400 acres on Moffet's Branch of Cathey's River, Ral-
ston's Path; patented to William, 10th February, 1748. Teste: Silas Hart,
Sam Wallace, Alexander Gibson.
Page 25.-27th November, 1757. John Harrison, farmer, to Robert Ren-
ick, farmer, 241 acres. Teste: Andrew Woods, John Poage, George Craw-
ford.
Page 29.-27th November, 1751. Daniel Harrison and Margaret, to Join
McCluer, 387 acres, Muddy Creek, on north side North River. Teste:
James Kilburn, Ro. Renick. Patented to Daniel, 5th September, 1746.
Page 33.-27th November, 1751. John McCluer and Mary, to Silas
Hart, 400 acres, South Fork of Shanandore; patented to John, 15th Decem-
ber, 1749. The order book says wife Margaret.
Page 37.-2 September, 1751. James Patton to John Ralston, 435 acres
by patent 3d November, 1750, Looney's Mill Creek; corner James Moore.
Teste: Wm. Ralston, John Flood, James Moor.
Page 41.-22d November, 1751. Jeremiah Chamberlain of York Co.,
Pennsylvania, to John Neeley, 400 arres, branches of James; patented to
Jeremiah, 12th February, 1742. Teste: James Ewing.
Page 45.-27th November, 1751. Adam Dickinson to John Stanley and
David Stanley, 546 acres on Falling Spring of Jackson River, Sinking Spring;
patented to Adam, 1st June, 1750.
Page 48.-26th November, 1751. Borden, etc., to John Stephenson, 290
acres of 92100, Mill Creek; corner Moses McClure, Warm Run; corner
Alexander McClure; corner Robert Allison; corner James Thompson.
Teste: John Lyle, Joseph Kenedey, Baptist McNabb.
Page 53.-26th November, 1751. Beverley by Lewis and Madison to
Archibald Stuart, 500 acres in Beverley Manor; corner James Campbel;
Widow Edmiston's line.
Page 59.-29th August, 1751. Christophel Francisco of Borough of
Lancaster (by Stofleel Francisco), and Ludwick Francisco to Thomas
Lewis, Gent., Great Island, 478 acres, part of 800 acres, granted to Stover,
299
494
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_151.txt
to be cared for by Margret; to grandson, James Steel, a horse until testator:
son, Daniel, comes of age; to son, John; to son-in-law, Isaac White;"
son-in-law, Saml. Steel and Isaac White, executors. Teste: Robt. Cu
ningham, Benj. Stewart. Proved, 22d March, 1754, by the witnesse
Executors qualify, with surety Jno. Ramsey.
Page 35-23d March, 1754. John Madison's bond as guardian (chosen
to Agnes Welsh, orphan of James Welsh, with surety Alex. Wright.
Page 36.-March, 1754. James Robertson's inventory by Jas. Campbel
Ephraim Voss, John Robeson.
Page 36-23d March, 1753, Halberd McClure's will, gentleman-Wif
Agnes; brother, John's son Halberd; sons; son Alexander, son Nathanie
executors. Teste: Baptist McNabb, Jno. Davison, Saml. Lyle. Proved
15th May, 1754, by Davison and Lyle, and executors qualify.
Page 39.-24th April, 1748-9. John Huston's will-Wife (to act with
advice of John Moore); sons, Samuel and Mathew (infant); rest of chil
dren; Mary Blair to have a share with the rest (of the children). Execu
tors, wife and John Moore. Teste: James Eakin, Joseph Kennedy, Walte
Eakin. Proved, 15th May, 1755, by the witnesses; wife Margaret and Joh
Moore qualify, with sureties Mathew Lyle and Wm. Lockridge.
Page 41.-22d April, 1754. James Campbell's appraisement, by John Fin
ley, Archd. Stewart, Thos. Stewart, Wm. Finley.
Page 42.-15th May, 1754. Saml. McClure's bond as guardian (ap
pointed) to Halbert McClure, orphan of Jno. McClure, with sureties Richd
Woods, David Dryden.
Page 43.-16th May, 1754. David Miller's bond as administrator of Wm
Miller, with sureties Geo. Henderson, Jno. Allison.
Page 43-5th January, 1754. William Burk's will-Sons, John and
William, tract purchased of John and Lewis Neal; son, Thomas, tract pur
chased of George Hayl, and entry adjoining called Long Meadow, 400 acres
daughter, Catherine Burk, alias McCommus; daughter, Judea Burk (in
fant), tract at mouth of Naked Creek. Judea is to be under care of Mrs
Matteson. Thomas is to be under care of Mr. John Matteson. Testator'
(?) Thomas' (?) interest in estate of David McCommus. Son William
to learn trade of blacksmith. Sister Bridget Burk, living out of this Col
ony. Executors, John Matterson and Gabriel Jones. Teste: Nicholas
Null, Thos. Smith, Daniel Remy. Proved, 16th May, 1754, by all witnesses
Page 45.-16th May, 1754. Margaret Reburn's bond as administratric
of Edward Reburn, with sureties Robert McMahon, Henry Reburn.
Page 46.-14th April, 1754. William Preston enters 400 acres on head
of Pott's Creek, and 400 acres on the first large bottom on Pott's Creek
above Potts' improvement, 400 acres formerly entered for Tobias Bright on
Craig's Creek, two 400-acre tracts at the forks of Tom's Creek, 400 acre
on the next large bottom above Col. Patton's uppermost survey on Craig'
Creek. James Patton.
Page 46.-17th May, 1754. Jane Fraim's bond as administratrix of
James Fraim, with surety Robert Rennick.
Page 48-11th April, 1754. Robert Foil's appraisement and sale bill, by
Chas. and Robt. Campbell, Wm. Magill. 19th April, 1754. Vendue of
above. By Jno. Erwin. Robert Foil's estate in account with Jno. Erwin.
50.-
e. 171
61.-
George
51.-
to Ju
52.-2
Cochi
52.-2
McDow
ert McCle
53.-2
of W
Page 54.-
55.-
acres on
erly ente
his of
Lask's
55.-
and
W
Mc
57.-
Rees,
38.-
Miller,
59.
Joh
60.
495
84
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_152.txt
V.2
(corner Mathew Patton), for William Dyer, present Nicholas Hevanor;
for Mathew Patton, for Mathew Patton, for Nicholas Hevernor; for Chris-
tian Dasher, present Anthony Bogart; for William Russell, none to show
lines; for John Davis; for Peter Haus (Hans), present Postian Hover;
for Wm. Russell, present Henry Pickle; for Wm. Russell, none to show;
for Wm. Russell, none to show; for Ro. Green's heirs, none to show.
Page 150.-1755: Thos. Moore and David Robson processioned as fol-
lows, viz: For Adam Reader, present Arnold Custard, Alex. Painter; for
Adam Burd; for Nicholas Cane, present his son, Daniel Cane; for John
Miller; for Wm. Pickins; for Jno. Forting; for Wm. Caslberry; for Wm.
Hopkins, present Thos. Shanklin; for Francis Green; for Thomas Gordon;
for James Beggs, present Uriah Humble; for Jacob Bare; for Jacob Trumbo,
present Amrode Lamb; for Rees Thomas, present Jno. Thomas; for John
Bare; for Thomas Moore, present Francis Hieghl; for David Robson.
Page 151-1755: David Dryden and Wm. Hall processioned as follows,
viz: For Moses McClure, for Alex. McClure, for Ro. Allison, for Moses
Trimble, for Robert Huston, for Samuel Lyle, for David Dryden, for Archd.
Alexander, for Thos. McSpadden, for Mathew Lyle, for Thomas Paxton,
for George Stevenson, for Robert Allison, for Thos. Paxton, Joyner; for
Isaac Taylor; for Jno. Davison, for Jno. Robison, for Reynolds's Orphans,
for Nathaniel McClure, for William Hall, for Wm. Caruthers, for Samuel
Gray, for John Maky, for Baptist McKnab, for Jno. Lowery, for Widow
McCleary, for Thos. Paxton, for Moses Whiteside, for John Stevenson, for
Wm. Lusk, for John Allison, for Jno. Dule (Lyle?), for John McClure,
for Moses McClure, for Danill Dyle (Lyle?).
Page 152. Jno. Finley, Wm. Thompson processioned in Cap. Thompson's
Company as follows, viz: For Samuel McCune, for Wm. Logan, for Wm.
Johnston, for Widow Thompson, for Thos. Thompson; Widow Frazer,
present Robert Modey; for Rob. Moody; for Andw. McClure, present Jno.
Hutchison; for Jno. Hutchison; for Hugh McClure, for Richard Pilson,
for Zechoriah Smith, for Widow Sayre, for Andw. McClure, for John Camp-
bell, for John Black, for Archd. Stewart, for Rob. Finley, for Alex. Hender-
son, for Wm. Patterson, for Jno. McClure, for George Caldwell, for John
Thompson, for Wm. Palmer, for James Gillespey, for. James Hamilton, for
Saml. Steele, for James McClure, for Widow Campbell, for Robert Patrick,
for John Ramsey, for Wm. Finley, for John Finley, for David Henderson,
for Isaac White, for Adam Morow, for Alex. Thompson, for Wm. Thomp-
son, for Wm. Caldwell.
Page 154.-For John Craig, for Charles Dallhouse, for Robert Gibson.
Page 154.-1755: John Risk and John Shields processioned as follows,
viz: For Robert Campbell, for James Hunter, for James Trotter, for John
Shields, for James McCutchion, for Widow Campbell, for Widow Campbell,
for Wm. Hunter, for Saml. McCutchen, for Thos. Berry, for John McCut-
chion, for David Campbell, for Wm. Campbell, for Wm. Ledgerwood,
for James Moffet, for Nathl. Davies, for Nichs. Leeper, for Danl. Downey,
for George Peny, for Saml. Sprowl, for Thos. Kirkpatrick, for Jno. Kirk-
patrick, for Jno. Risk, for Jno. Risk, for Jno. Risk, for James Clark, for
John Shields, Jr., for David Cunningham, for Chas. Berry, for James
Callison, for James Marten, for Josiah Richarts, for David Hays, for Alex.
McFeeters, for James Gilmore, for James Lockhart, for Alex. Richey, for
441
496
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_153.txt
Bigam, for Andrew Cowan (son present), for James Peerey, for Elijah
McClenachan, for John Cowlter, for Andrew Scott (son present), for Samuel
Caldwell.
Page 282.-For John Buchanan, for Capt. Robert Breckinridge, for Col.
Steward, for John Henderson, for Robert McClenachan, for James Bratton,
for John Miller, for Joanes Henderson.
Page 283.-1760: Processioned by Abraham Bird, David Robinson, viz:
For Jacob Trumbow, for John Miller, for Joseph Dicktum, for Uriah Hum-
ble, for Jacob Bare, for Conrad Lamb, for Abraham Bird, for Adam Rieder,
for Mathias Rieder, for Alex. Painter, for John Bare, for James Baggs, for
John Phillips, for Alex. Buchanan, for Daniel Davison, for Jacob Woodley,
for Thomas Logan, for Zebulon Harrison, for John Harrison, for John Har-
rison, Jr., for John Davison, for Michael Weron, for Thomas Moore, for
Francis Hughes, for Jonathan Hodges, for Andrew Bird, for Thomas Mil-
saps, for William McGee, for John Blizard, for Jacob Rambow, for David
Robinson, for Martin Shumaker, for Charles Dayley, for Francis McBride,
for John McDaniel, for John Bryant, for Macoy
for George Spence, for John Miller, for Wm. Pickins, for Isaac Robinson,
-, for Robert Cravens,
for John Capter.
Page 284.-1760: Processioned by Andrew Russell: For John Hutchison,
for Andrew Russell, for Pat. McCallum, for Wm. Marshall, for Andrew
Lewis, for John Guin (Grim?), for John Henderson, for John McNutt,
for John Thompson, for Col. John Lewis.
Page 285.-1760: Processioned by David Trimble and John Poage (in
Capt. Israel Christian's Company), viz: For Col. Preston, for John Stuart in
Staunton, for Robert Reed, for Capt. Wm. Lewis, for Maj. Andrew Lewis,
for Daniel (David?) Dinyson, for Rev. John Craig, for David Bell, for Wm.
and James Wallace, for John Anderson, for Robert Palley, for Wm. Ander-
son, for James Hughes (in Staunton), for Joseph Gamble, for Widow Will-
son, for Widow Long, for John Cunningham, for James Bell, for John
Hutchison, for Wm. Wallace, for Mathew Armstrong, for John King, for
Robert Poage, for John Finley, for John Patterson, for Anthony Black, for
Patrick Neillson (?), for Robert Willey, for Mr. Archer.
Page 286.-1760: Processioned by Samuel Lyle, Wm. Lusk: For Andrew
Hall, for David Dryden, for Baptis McNab, for James Thompson, for
Nathaniel McClure, for Alex. McClure, for Robert Allison, for Moses Mc-
Clure, for Wm. Ramsey, for Samuel Lyle, for Reynold's Orphans, for Moses
McClure, for John McClure, for Wm. Caruthers, for Thomas Paxton, for
Samuel Paxton, for Nathan Peoples, for Robert Allison, for John White,
for Archibald Alexander, for Robert Teris (Tevis?), for Thomas McSpad-
den, for Samuel Gray, for John Maky, for Moses Trimble, for John Maky,
for Isaac Taylor, for John Davison, for Moses Whitesides, for Samuel Mc-
Croskrey, for Daniel Lyle, for Wm. Lusk, for John Lowrey.
Page 287-1760: Processioned by Reagh and Huston: For James Walker,
for James Robison, for James Moore, for Charles Hays, for Andrew Hays,
for Samuel Dunlap, for Wm. Porter, for Robert Ealson, for James Ander-
son, for Jacob Anderson, for Wm. Young, for Alex. Walker, for Alex.
Walker, Sr., for Robert Hurt, for John Edmiston, for James Buchanan, for
William and Robert Buchanan, for Samuel Hayes, for John Robertson, for
Mathew Robertson, for Widow Bell, for James Coulter, for John Buntin,
464
497
V.2
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_154.txt
Freder(cksburg, to Abraham Hite, of Hampshire, release of deed, 1st Feb-
ruary, 1755, by grantee here to grantor; Hite's Mill tract. Teste: David
Ralstone, Jere Herreson, John and Abraham Wright.
Page 108.-31st December, 1760. Alex. Hite and Rebecca, of Hamp
shire, to John Wright, £150, 550 acres on Linvel's Creek, part of 1200 acres
patented to McCoy, Hite & Co. and by them conveyed to Abraham by deed
recorded in Orange; cor. to portion of said tract belonging to Jeremiah
Harrison. Delivered: John Johnston by order of Cap. Daniel Smith, Aug-
ust, 1766.
Page 112-31st December, 1760. Same to David Ralstone, £150, 250
acres on Linvel's Creek, part of 1200 above, adjoining 550 above.
Page 115-31st Decemebr, 1760. Same to Jeremiah Harrison, £150,
400 acres on Linvel's Creek, part of 1200 above, adjoining Wright and
Ralstone above. Delivered: Jeremiah Harrison, 14th October, 1765.
Page 119-17th February, 1761. John Camplin (Johannes Keplinger)
and Lydia ( ) Camplin (Keplinger), his wife, to John Gratton, £50, on
the River, 156 acres, part of 800 acres taken up by Benj. Borden, Jr., and
by his executors conveyed to John Camplin, 7th August, 1757. Teste:
John Camplin. Delivered.
Page 123.-22d January, 1761. David Miller to Robert Brackenridge,
£105, 307 acres on Buffelo Creek, a branch of Roanoke, including said
David Miller's improvements, joining lands of said David Miller, David
Robinson, William Graham, Baptist McNab and Andrew Hays, part of two
surveys: A, conveyed to David by Wm. Syers; B, patented to David, 10th
March, 1756. Teste: Geo. Paris.
Page 126. 14th February, 1761. John Dunlupe (Dunlap, Dunlop, Dun-
lape) to Robert Dunlape, £100, 295 acres on Calfpasture, part of 625 acres
on Mill Creek, the river where the Creek empties. Teste: Arwaker John-
ston, James Beard, Jas. Trimble.
Page 129-17th February, 1761. Jeremiah (Jere) Harrison and Cath-
erine to Samuel Semple, £22, 19 acres by patent, 10th April, 1759, at the
great Spring on head of South Branch of Linvell's Creek; cor. Samuel
Stewart's land. Teste: William Preston, George Skillern, William Ander-
SON.
Page 133-10th February, 1761. William Sprowl and Jean to William
Stewart, £30, 168 acres on Cowpasture River. Teste: William Marten,
Hugh ( ) Young, James ( ) Trotter. Delivered, October, 1761.
Page 1-3d February, 1760. George Speece and Christina to Michael
Hober, 5, on east side Linvell's Creck, 150 acres, part of 500 surveyed for
Paul Froman and afterward conveyed to said George Speece; cor. John
Miller's land. Teste: Henry Maese and Nicolas ( ) Mase. Delivered:
Francis Morisey, April, 1763.
Page 141.-17th February, 1761. Samuel Bell and Margaret ( ) to
James Ker, blacksmith, £40, 300 acres in Beverley Manor, at mouth of
Christian's Creek on Middle River; cor. James Hamilton's land, formerly
Ker's, fork of Long Meadow Run and said Creek, suposed to be a corner
in the patent line; cor. George Roger, Thomas Baskin's line, formerly Wid-
ow Baskin's. Delivered: James Ker, 10th June, 1771.
Page 144. February, 1761. George ( ) Patterson and Margaret
to Philip Horless (Horlish), £50, 110 acres on head of a draft running into
366
one C
Teste
edged
Pag
5 sh.,
Delive
Pag
erine
on ea
Rober
Pag
Lamb
Middl
kins, 1
Pag
erine
head
Hite,
Pag
£30, 1
cor. la
Armst
Philip
Pag
100 ad
McCo
Pag
92100,
line, V
Pag
of 921
Crawf
Pag
of 921
by Joh
tract s
Pag
of 921
Franci
Pag
of 921
cor. P
Pag
acres (
Pag
acres (
Hamil
Pag
300 ac
River;
McCo
498
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_155.txt
✓
ing, Agnes Guy, Jean Moffet, Mary Guy, James Borling, Thos. Brown,
Timothy Sullivan. Sundries to Elizabeth Gay, Ann Gay. Paid to John
Vance, Nathaniel Lyon, John Neall, John Jamison, James McCoy, Arthur
Hamilton, Maj. Brown, Commadore Brown.
Page 14-24th November, 1760. Stophel White's appraisement, by
David Telford, James McCampbell, Andrew McCampbell.
Page 15.-13th December, 1760. John Herman (Harmon's) appraise-
ment, by John Coutz, Adam Hettrick, Valentine Pence.
Page 16.-4th April, 1761. Patrick Young's will-Wife, Esibala (Isa-
bella) and Joseph Walker, executors; son, James; 3 daughters, Sarah,
Jar.net and Allas. Teste: Wm. Hall, Jas. Campbell, Saml. McMurty.
Proved, 19th May, 1761, by the witnesses. Executors qualify, with John
Bowyer, Jno. Collier, James McKee. Isabella's mark ( ).
Page 18.-5th February, 1761. Nathaniel McClure's will-Wife, Mary;
eldest son, Holbert, £10 to cure his sore leg, above his share; sons, James
and Nathan? (their young brother and sisters). Rest of children, viz:
Halbert, Mary, Alexander, Hanah, Thomas, Margaret, Dorothy, Moses.
Young sons to be put to trades. Executors, Alexander and Moses McClure
and Archd. Alexander. Teste: David Dryden, Wm. Carleton, Hannah
Allison. Proved, 19th May, 1761, by Dryden and Carleton. Executors
refuse. Administration granted widow Mary, who qualifies, with John
Allison, Saml. McClure, Baptist McNabb. Mary's mark ( ), Allison's
mark (), McNabb's mark ().
Page 20.-11th September, 1760. Robert Huston's will, farmer-Wife,
Mary; son, John (infant), 95 acres on Collier's Creek; son, James (infant),
200 acres adjoining place testator lives on; son, Samuel (infant), planta-
tion. testator lives on, 307 acres; daughter, Elizabeth, 5 shillings, already
provided for; daughters, Ann, Esther, Margaret, Mary. Wife, Mary; son,
John; brother, Samuel Huston, executors. Teste: Daniel Lyle, Moses
Trimble, Saml. McCoskey. Proved, 19th May, 1761, by Lyle and Trimble
and executors qualified (Mary's mark ), with Daniel Lyle, John Huston,
Jno. Lowry (Lowny).
Page 23.-19th May, 1761.
Archibald Buchanan's (Bohannon) bond
(with Jno. and Wm. Buchanan) for Archibald and Agnes Buchanan (late
Agnes McFerrin) administration of estate of James McFerrin.
Page 24.-13th March, 1760. John Bowen's will-Wife. Lillis (Lillie),
sole executor and guardian; daughter, Mary, 1 malato slave; son, Charles.
Teste: Jno. Smith, Margaret Smith, Peter Luney, Walter Crockett, Jona-
than Smith, Jno. Buchanan. Proved, May 19th, 1761, by Jno. and Jonathan
Smith and Jno. Buchanan. Lillie qualifies (her mark ), with Jonathan
Whitley, Wm. Buchanan.
Page 26.-18th May. 1761. John Culliland's appointment, by Alex.
Buchanan, Jno. Wallace, Wm. Buchanan-Cash in Capt. Christian's cus-
tody; cash in Capt. Hog's hands.
Page 26.-19th May, 1761. Mary Brown's bond (with Jno. Collier,
James Campbell) as administratrix of William Brown.
Page 28. 28th June, 1758. Peter Moser's estate settlement, by Michael
Mallow, allowed 19th May, 1761-To Cathron Moser, Jno. Hopkins, Danl.
Love, James McDole, Jno. Wright, Fardrick Kestor, Jacob Harper, Andrew
Arewen, Powl Shaver, Eaform Love, Nickles Hofman, Edward McGary.
(2nd vendue held 8th November, 1758?) To Alex. Miller, James McGill,
69
499
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II_page_156.txt
Page 24-17th November, 1761. Baptist ( ) McNabb and Catherine
to John Nealey, £155, 171 acres on Rentfroe's Branch of Goose Creek;
Rent froe's line, cor. George Robinson; also 137 acres on Robinson's Branch
of Roanoke; cor. Bryan Cuff; cor. Stephen Rent froe; cor. George Robin-
son's and Rentfroe's tract.
Page 38.day - 1760. Edward Beard and Mary ( ) to James
Beard, £30, 36 acres on North River of Shanandoe, part of 400 acres pat-
ented to Samuel Lockhart, 10th April, 1751; also 20 acres, part of 179 acres
patented to Samuel Lockhart, 30th August, 1748, adjoining above. Teste:
Robert Homes, Joseph ( ) Homes.
Page 41.-18th November, 1760. Richard Woods, of Albemarle, mer-
chant, to Peter Wallace, of Augusta, farmer, £60, 195 acres in Forks of
James River; cor. in Borden's patent by James Devises Field; cor. Peter
Wallace's other land; cor. Richard Woods, gent. Delivered: Cap. Samuel
Lapsley, 17th August, 1784.
Page 45.-18th November, 1761. Jonathan Douglass and Jemima ( )
to Patrick Quin, £20, 350 acres on head of Broad Run, a branch of North
River of Shanandoe, part of two tracts, one of 400 acres patented to Jona-
than, 11th July, 1761, the other of 400 acres also patented to Jonathan,
adjoining above; cor. Nicholas Mace.
Page 47. Commission for privy examination of Jane, wife of William
Sproul, deed to William Stewart dated 9th/10th February, 1761, executed,
3d November, 1761.
Page 50.-18th November, 1761. Jonathan Robinson to David Robinson,
£25, 110 acres on North Branch of Shanandoe, part of 400 acres devised
to Jonathan by his father James Robinson, 9th April, 1760, recorded in
Augusta; cor. David Robinson's land.
Page 54.-25th September, 1761. Henry Fuller, of Orange County,
North Carolina, to John Paxton, £125, 190 acres on North Branch James
River, being the farm where Henry formerly lived. Delivered: John Paxton,
December, 1762.
Page 57.-16th November, 1761. James Armstrong and Jane ( ) to
Samuel and Mirian Cloyd, £200, 300 acres in Beverley Manor on Christian's
Creek. Delivered: Cloyd, June, 1763.
Page 61.-17th November, 1761. James Trimble and Sarah to Samuel
Bright, £7.10, 100 acres on sontheast branch of Black Thorn, a branch of
the South Branch of Potowmack. Delivered to James Gamble by your
order, 23d June, 1765.
Page 65-14th November, 1761. James Bailey (Baley, Bailly) to Benj.
Bennett, blacksmith, £40, 175 acres in Fork of James River, joining Samuel
McDowell's tract.
Page 69.-21st November, 1759. James Clerk and Wm. Elliote to Wm.
Johnson, assignee of John Johnson. Whereas Archbald Elliote, of Anson
County, North Carolina, on 20th February, 1758, by power attorney con-
stituted James Clark and Wm. Elliott his attorney to make this conveyance,
163 acres on Jackson's River, £60.
Page 72.-13th October, 1761. Patrick McDonald, talour, to Stephen
Herd (Heard), of Albemarle County, £70, lot No. 12 in Staunton (one
dwelling house and two office houses) and also 50 acres woodland belonging
to it, one negro boy. Teste: Thomas Heard, Thos. Fitzpatrick, Michael
Daugherty.
378
500
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_001.txt
.
Page 479. 13th August, 1762. Jacob Coger, of Hallifax County, to
Michael Coger, £100, 455 acres on Shanando, part of 930 acres patented
to Jacob, 24th April, 1753. Cor. Thomas McCready (conveyed from Jacob),
the patent lines. Teste: Felta Kop (Valentine Cope), Stephen Conrad.
Delivered: M. Coger, 26th April, 1763.
Page 483.-17th August, 1762. Patrick ( ) McCallam to Alex. Gibson,
£70, 205 acres in Beverley Manor conveyed by James Coyle to Patrick, 11th
October, 1750, on Christian's Creek, cor. William Palmer, Alex. Thompson
and Jno. Thompson. Cor. James Coyle. Acknowledged. Delivered: Samuel
Frazier by your order, 5th September, 1765.
Page 487.-17th August, 1762. Joseph Carpenter to John Mann, £70,
230 acres on Jackson's River.
Page 490.-18th August, 1762. Isaac Taylor and Esabella to Isaac Tay-
lor, Jr., £50, 181 acres on the waters of James River. Acknowledgement
and privy examination, 18th August, 1762. Delivered: Francis Smith, May
Court, 1767.
Page 494-18th May, 1762. Alex. Craig and Margrett ( ) to James
Patterson, £5, 47 acres, part of 144 acres patented to Alexander, March,
1756, on Middle River of Shanandoe.
Page 498.-18th May, 1762. Alex. Craig and Margrett ( ) to Alex.
Craig, his son, £5, 132 acres on a small branch of Middle River of Shan-
andoe, part of 335 acres patented to Alex., 10th September, 1755; cor. James
Gamble's land. Delivered: Alex. Craig,
Page 502-11th August, 1762.
86 acres by deed, 11th August,
Creek. Teste: Thomas Barnes.
-
Abram Smith to Israel Christian, £20,
January, 1764.
1762, at Mulberry Bottom, on Craig's
Page 506.-18th August, 1762. Robert Ramsey and Margaret, of Anson
County in North Carolina, to James Henry, £70, 340 acres in Beverley
Manor, cor. Samuel Huston; cor. Robert Alexander and Patrick Hays;
cor. Wm. Purris. Acknowledged and privy examination. Delivered: Sam-
uel Henry, 21st June, 1771.
Page 510.-14th May, 1762. John Macky, farmer, to James McClung,
Sr., £120, 390 acres on Mill Creek of James River, cor, Baptist McNabb.
Proved by witnesses. Delivered to John McClung, May, 1773.
Page 514-17th August, 1762.
David Williams, -, 200 acres, part of 400 acres patented on North Fork
William Wilson and Agness ( ) to
of North River of Shanando, an island of said river.
Page 516.-14th June, 1702. Samuel ( ) Gay, of Anson County, North
Carolina, and Jean ( ) to James Gay, £70, 354 acres on Little River of
Calfpasture in Beverley's patent. Cor. William Elliott; cor. William Gay.
Teste: Samuel Crockett, Alex. Hamilton, Jno. Stinson. Proved by wit-
nesses.
Page 521-8th February, 1762. James ( ) Sloan to John Mills, £5,
176 acres by patent, 20th September, 1745, on a branch of James River,
on a branch of Lunie's Mill Run. Delivered to John Craig by your order,
May, 1764.
Page 524.-18th August, 1762. Richard ( ) Kerr to Israel Christian,
£54, 240 acres by patent deed from Col. James Patton to Richard Kerr,
18th November, 1752, on Welsh Run, a branch of Roan Oak. Teste: Wm.
Christian, Thomas Barnes, Archibald Handley.
888
501
3.
n
Sa
No
ick
Ju
ilto
for
gag
F
Joh
Jno
Deli
P
Mat
Stro
Cree
Pa
by J
Garr
1762
Octo
Pa
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_002.txt
✓
Bartley, Wm. Craig, Jno. Fudge, James Downey, Joseph Wait, Repentance
Townsend, Jacob Harman, Saml. Muncy, Robt. Hook, Danl. Love, David
Logan, Wm. Beard, Johnston Hill, David Crighton; to cash. Paid Jno
Wright, Henry Perkey, Jno. Maggart, Andw. Faught, Jacob Pence, Nicholas
Trout, Thos. Crawford, Archd. Huston.
Page 150.-18th May, 1762. Florence Graham's appraisement, by Wm
Elliott, Archd. Armstrong, Jno. Graham, Jr., recorded. Acct. vs. Joseph
Vachub, John and Robert Graham.
Page 150.-24th February, 1762. James Leister's estate, appraised
Jno. Hughes, Sampson Mathews, Mathew Reed.
Page 154.-19th May, 1762. Alex. McFeeters' additional appraisement
by Jno. Bigham, recorded.
Page 154. 20th May, 1762. Settlement of Stophel White's estate by
Jacob Anderson, recorded-Funeral charges, viz: 1 shirt, £1, 0, 0; muslin
for a cale, £5, 0; 1 sheet, 5 yds., £17, 6; 734 gallons liquor, £1, 3, 3; 6 lba
cheese, £3.9; bords and cofen and nails; £13, 6; 1½ bu. flour (75 lbs.),
£7, 3; 6 lbs. for shortening for said bisket, £0, 3, 5; vendue liquor, 2 gals,
1 pt., £6, 4. Paid James Arbuckle, David Galloway. Stophel White'
vendue, sold to viz: David Drein, Jacob Anderson, Alex. Miller, Isaac An
derson, Marion Crawford, Alex. Telford, David Dryden, Baptist McNabb,
David Telford.
Page 156-6th February, 1762.-James Litster's estate sold to, viz:
James Ward, Geo. Wilson, Mathew Reed, Wm. Cabeen, Chas.
Donnally, Ro. Armstrong, Edward Long, Pat. Cunningham, Andw.
Greer, Thos. Fulton, Margt. Cameron, Jno. Stewart, Ro. Reed,
Geo. Francisco, David Bell, Wm. Poage, Wm. Crow, Luke Bowyer, Abra-
ham Thornton, Wm. Henderson, Jno. Buchanan, Thos. O'Neal, Alex. Gib
son, Alex. Wright, Jno. Francis, James Simpson, Geo. Weaver, Philip Hel
veston, Jno. King, Geo. Anderson, Rev. Mr. Craige, Andw. Russell, Saml
Caldwell, Joseph Roberts, Jno. Gregory, Jno. Lucas, Mathew Clark, Jna
Anderson, Jr., James Robinson, Jacob Parsinger, Saml. Moore, Christopher
Vinyard, Thos. Patterson, the Widow Bell, Ralph Gorrell, Jos. Russell
James Gilmore, Simon Robertson, James Hughes.
Page 157.--24th May, 1762. Adam Dickinson's additional appraisement,
by Catherine Dickinson, administratrix, recorded.
Page 158.-17th August, 1762. Andrew Duncan's appraisement, by Wm.
Edmondson, Jno. Edmondson, Saml. Buchanan, recorded.
Page 159.-24th May. John Davis' estate, appraised by Samuel Lyle
Alex. McFeeters, and recorded 17th August, 1762.
Page 162.-5th July, 1762. Robert Craven's estate, appraised by Mathew
Thompson, Archd. Huston, Jno. Stewart. Bonds due by Ro. McGarry,
John Crow, Wm. Cravens.
Page 165-5th August, 1761. John Mason's estate, appraised by Tho
Tosh, James Bein, Neal McNeal.
Page 167-17th August, 1762. Agnes Tosh's bond with Jno. Armstrong
and James McKeachy, as administratrix of Tasker Tosh.
Page 168.-24th November, 1760. John McCinney's will-Plantationer
To wife, Mary; to son, Alexander; to daughter, Margaret Stuart; to so
John; to daughters, Ann, Sarah, Mary. Executors, wife, Mary and son
John. Neighbor, James Phillips to make division of estate. Teste: Jno
70
I'll bet that they looked to forward to funerals.
502
ps, Jas. P
John Phill
McCinney
170.-1
Mooberry
nklin, Davi
Cravens,
win, Margt.
I appraised,
nis. Cash
argaret Dyer,
Page 172.-2
Rebecka;
Executor
es McCamp
mpbell and
Hays qualifies,
174.-
on book;
Valentine
ger qualif
Proved
176.-
rew Steel,
176.-1
Wm. 1
rs, 1 tabl
178.-
bter, G
; to d
Eu
Amm
to be
18th
Admini
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_003.txt
:Clelan, George
( ) to Samuel
River, between
Judey ( ) to
: David Tate,
Jannet () to
r, joining John
James Curry,
Fisher, March,
and Margrit
ranch, part of
9, and by him
9.8 by Charles
f sale to above
ans.
McCollom) to
which Patrick
elivered: John
John Young,
rks of James.
) to Patrick
James River,
Moses Allen.
gras in South
ther, planter,
Philadelphia,
New River,
Teste: John
(
) to John
River; corner
ady, Malcom
a to Duncan
nah () to
On's. Teste:
Delivered:
ames Wood,
at, deceased,
of Catawbo
'
Page 235.-18th March, 1767. David Frame to John Bodkin, £15, 66
acres joining Robert McCutchin's land, on Naked Creek. Mortgage.
Page 237-6th December, 1766. Adam Rider to Jacob Hite, gent., of
Frederick, covenant and yearly rent. Lease of tract known as Rider's
hundred acres tract, northwest of tract whereon Adam now lives, 100 acres,
for ten years, at yearly rental of £200; said mine or mines which are now
opened or any other that may be hereafter opened, lease may be extended
if the mines prove profitable.
Page 240-10th March, 1767. David Miller and Hannah to Israel
Christian, merchant, £15, 120 acres on a branch of Buffalo, a branch of Roan
Oak, Baptist McNabb's line Edward McDonald's line. Teste: Francis
Smith, Wm. Christian, Wm. Preston, Robert Breckenridge, Ben. Hawkins,
Wm. Fleming, Edward Carvin, Stephen Trigg, Nathan ( ) Gillilan, Wm.
Christian. Delivered: Israel Christian, 9th February, 1773.
Page 243-10th March, 1767. Same to Israel Christian, £50, 141 acres
on Glade Creek of Roanoke; corner John Bowing's land.
Page 246.-21st November, 1766. David Looney and Mary to William
Crow, of Staunton, £290, 140 acres, art of 250 acres patented to Robert
Looney, 1742, whereon David lately lived, and which he recovered from
John Bowyer, on James River; corner Col. Smith's land.
Page 249-13th May, 1767. Joseph Robinson to Edward Springer, £200,
190 acres by patent to said Joseph, 20th September, 1748, on the waters of
Rone Oak, joining land formerly George Robinson's, on Buffalo Creek;
corner Coleses land. Teste: Samuel Pepper, Thomas Lloyd.
Page 252.-15th May, 1767. Benjamin Bennet and Catherine to Isaac
Ward, taylor, £48, 320 acres in Forks of James River; corner William
Foster's land.
Page 255.-16th May, 1767. James Botkin and Dinah ( ) to Robert
Carlile, £50, 216 acres on Cowpasture River; corner a tract in possession
of Robert Hall. Teste: John Carlile, Jas. Bradshaw, Wm. Black.
Page 258.-19th May, 1767. William Shannon and Jean ( ) to Robert
Grag, £35, 100 acres, part of 400 patented to William Humphrey, 25th
✓e, 1747, and by him conveyed to Henry Smith, and by him to Wm.
Shannon, on North River Shanando, white oak on Castle Hill. Teste:
Samuel McFeeters, Moses Hall, John ( ) Cozby. Delivered: Frederick
Michael, 7th March, 1792.
Page 261.-17th May, 1767. Robert ( ) Allison to Andrew McCampbell,
£80, horses and house furnishings and clothes. Teste: Wm McKemey,
Wm. McCampbell.
Page 261-1st November, 1766. John Davis, of Mecklenburg County.
North Carolina, to James Davis, of Augusta County, power of attorney to
collect all sums of money due John in Augusta County, and to convey to
purchasers all tracts of land belonging to John. Teste: Joseph Davis, Hugh
Hays
Page 262.-17th May, 1767. Ebenezer ( ) Wascoat, of South Carolina,
and Jacob Shell, of Augusta, to Jacob Lorton. Ebenezer Wastcoat, late
of Augusta County, but now of Berkeley County, South Carolina, sometime
before his removal from Augusta County agreed to sell to Jacob a tract of
656 acres on Crab Creek, a branch of New River and received from Jacob
£40, and afterwards (on 9th February, 1767) he gave a power of attorney
451
503
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_004.txt
✓
✓
Page 85.-19th August, 1767. Settlement of Valentine Coil's estate, by
Geo. Hammer and Geo. Coile-Cash paid Gabriel Coile, George Caplinger;
cash paid Francis Evick, Geo. Tice, Woolrick Conrod; cash paid Colien
Havenor, Nicholas Havenor, Jno. Murray, Henry Stone, Mark Swatley,
Christian Grod, Barned Lince, Martin Coile.
Page 37.-19th August, 1767. Archd. Clendenning's estate settlement, by
Ann Clendenning, recorded-Paid Ash Claftrock, John Clendenning, Wm.
Galespie, Zopher Carpenter, James Furguson, David Galloway, James Milli-
can, Robt. Galespie, Geo. Roberts, Benj. Kimsey, John Baller, John Jere-
miah; paid by Jeremiah Seeley.
Page 38. 4th August, 1767. Wm. Preston, Assistant Surveyor, enters
8 tracts, 400 acres each, on north and west sides of James McMillin's lands
on waters of Craig's Creek, Catawbo and Roanoke; also 200 acres on both
sides of Craig's Creek, above land of Wm. Plummer; 300 acres on both sides
of Barbours Creek between lands of Wm. Lee and Wm. Rowland; 2 tracts,
each 200 acres, adjoining Henry Switchard on a branch of Catawbo; also 3
tracts of 200 acres each between the Crab Tree Orchard and the Paint
Banks on Potts Creek; also 4 tracts of 200 acres each between Paint Banks
and Potts improvements; also 400 acres above and on south side of Israel
Christian's land on Craig's Creek where Simon Dehart lives; also 400
acres above Thos. Toshe's land on Neely Creek.
Page 39.-17th August, 1767. Michael Harper's estate appraised, by
Will and James Henderson, Thos. Rutledge.
Page 39.-
Estate of Col. James Patton, deceased, to
Jno. Buchanan, Dr.-To six slaves purchased by Buchanan in compliance
with Patton's will and applied to use of Buchanan's eldest daughter Mary
and annexed to her lands on James River. 22nd January, 1767.
Page 40-24th August, 1767. Account of administration of estate of
Col. John McNeill, recorded-Cash paid Wm. Duncan for board of serv-
ants under cure; to gold watch sold George Weedon. 1765, April 1st-
Cash paid Joseph Gamble for riding express for Col. McNeile to Dr. Jame-
son. July 4th-Cash paid in part of Farghagh Cambel's account. Novem-
ber 5th Cash paid James Hughes the balance of Farghagh Camil account.
Cash paid Hector McNeil. 1766, January 1st-Cash paid Mr. James Mel-
vin. 1766, January 9th-To cash paid Wm Lewis for 750 pounds flower
for ye use of ye detachment Col. McNeil marched to Fort Pitt. July 2d-
Cash paid John Coke. Credits-1765, February, by 5 ounces, 3 penny-
weights of gold, £25.16.0.; by 35 dollars and 2 half johannos, £14.13.9.;
by 1 moidon, 6 Inglish shillings; by cash from Col. Bouquet, £90.0.0.; by
cash from Capt. Walter Cunningham, £12.16.9.; by cash from John Mann.
August 20th, by cash from Edward Long for blankets. 1766, May 22d,
by cash from Wm. Hyde.
Page 44-24th August, 1767. George Mathews' bond (with Wm. Mc-
Clenachan) as guardian to Elizabeth Mathews, orphan of Joshua Mathews.
Page 45.-23d September, 1767. Mary McClure's settlement of estate
of N. McClure-Cash paid for funeral expenses for my child; cash paid
for schooling the children; cash paid Halbert McClure, one of the heirs;
cash paid Joseph Reed, one of the heirs; cash paid James McClure, his part;
cash paid Nathl. McClure, his part; cash paid Jno. Smiley, his part; cash
paid Thos. McClure, his part; cash paid Margt. McClure, her part; cash
paid Moses McClure, his part. Recorded on motion of Baptist McNabb.
Page 46.-25th Octob
✓ parad, on account of il
✓state and asks to have
Jacob Purkey, Henry L
Page 47.-17th Noven
Page 48.-17th Nover
McClure) as guardian to
Page 49.-17th Nover
McClure, John McClure
;Page 51.-17th Nove
James Casety, orphan o
Page 51.-17th Nov
Woods) as administrato
Page 53.-17th Nove
com Allen, Saml. McR
Page 55.-13th Nov
(by James Ewing, Joh
Page 55.-17th Nove
(by Moses Hall, Adam
Page 57.-10th Sep
son, Thomas, for his sc
ter, Margaret, for her
Joseph Walker and Sar
Alex. McCluer. Prov
Dowell. Executors ref
qualifies with Saml. (n
Page 59.-18th Nov
corded-Cash paid Io
John Nedomtoone, Joh
seph English, John Ne
Danl. Prentice, Danl. I
Page 61.-Mr. Smi
ministering on my ded
you are the bigest cre
own and our good the
we leave it to the mer
your friends. Novem
Null.
Page 61.-18th Nov
com, Benj. Logan) as
Page 63.-20th No
Wm. Wright, Jno. Br
Page 65-16th Nov
and valued.
Page 66.-21st No
Buchanan, Thos. Stev
Page 67-21st No
Christian) to keep t
River.
Page 68.-23d No
to, viz: Elizabeth W
100
504
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_005.txt
Gawin Leeper,
nuel Maggott.
unt of adminis-
aham Smith lay
nston, deceased,
ohnston, orphan
Euphemia, Jane
Buchanan con-
der summoning
ed. Order sum-
hn Cassaty dis-
ntinued.
Order
is own land on
avid Doak, John
ohn Parks, Tim.
Coulter, Nathan
McCown, James
mes Thompson,
binson, William
Hartgrove.
ert Allen, Jr., is
Peter Wallace,
Alexr. Dunlap,
George Moffett,
Page
(495) Hemp certificates: Joseph Alexander, Ro. Kenny, Wm. Alexander,
John Failey, Saml. McDowell, Adam Reaburn.
(495) James Blair, Jr., and David Erwin appointed surveyors of high-
way.
(495) William Gay, orphan of Wm. Gay, deceased, to be bound to John
Wahub.
(496) Wm. Alexander appointed surveyor of highway, vice Wm. Lowry.
Robert Fowler appointed surveyor of highway, vice James McGill. James
Crockett appointed surveyor of highway from Painter Gap to Samuel
Hodges.
(496) Isaac Robinson qualified administrator of George Ghest.
(497) Halbert McClure appointed guardian to Margaret McClure, aged
11 years, and Moses McClure, aged 8 years, orphans of Nathaniel McClure,
deceased.
(497) Thomas Connolly appointed surveyor of highway, vice Hugh
Donaho.
(497) George Wilson, runaway servant of John Stewart.
(498) Samuel Todd has a writ ad quod damnum before building a water
mill on his land on Whistle Creek.
MARCH 16, 1768.
(499) John Mann qualifies administrator of Caleb May.
(499) Halbert McClure bound to peace versus James McClure.
(500) Hemp certificates: Baptist McNabb, James Crockett, Thos. Mc-
Callock, Pat. Hays, Andrew Hall, Andrew Woods, Elizabeth Taylor,
Andrew Lewis, Alexr. Evans, David Forbes, John Hopkins, Archd.
Hopkins.
(501) Hemp certificates: Saml. Lyle, Robt. McAfee, John Hall, James
McAfee, Wm. McAfee, John Lyle, Jr., Geo. McAfee, John Berry, James
Lyle.
(502) Hemp certificates: Andrew Haling, John Stuart.
(502) Wm. McCutcheon bound to peace versus James Cooper.
(503) David Mitchell has leave to build water grist mill on his own land
on Catawbo.
(503) Mary Green, servant to John Graham.
(503) Following orphans of Charles Whitman to be bound: Hurson
Mathias Whitman, to James Gregory, to learn trade of a weaver.
Whitman, to Andrew Sitlington. Jacob Whitman, to John Warwick, to
Catherine
learn trade of shoemaker.
(504) James McDowell bound to peace versus Samuel Henderson.
(504) Road to be viewed by Peter Wallace, Saml. Wallace, James Mc-
Nabb and Halbert McClure, from William Hall's Mill to Wm. McKee's.
(504) Alexander Walker's mark recorded; also John Walker's.
(504) Thomas Dryden appointed guardian to Margaret McClure, infant
orphan of Nathaniel McClure.
(505) Michael Kirkham, servant of John Skelton.
(505) Jame Trimble, aged 15, orphan of John Trimble, chose George
Moffett guardian.
145
505
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_006.txt
Hays
act on
amuel
Spring
Moore.
30, on
July,
Teste:
John
werley
-ered:
, 110
1, on
tract,
marle
house
so the
John
-pbell,
, Sr.,
) to
m by
-death
death,
whom
Creek,
rried
Lange,
ober,
( )
werley
Deliv-
kead,
John
An
16th
Page 164.-20th March, 1772. Robert Beverley to Alexander and Wil-
liam Robertson. Delivered: Alexander Robertson, Esq., 29th March, 1788.
Page 169.-16th March, 1772. Jacob ( ) Argen (Archen) bright and
Susannah ( ) to Henry Sturtsnocker, £33.10, 125 acres between Cub
Run and the Peaked Mountain patented to Philip Haws 14th February,
1761, and by him conveyed to Jacob Parsenger 17th June, 1762, and by him
to grantor here 20th November, 1764; corner Nicholas Trout; corner Jacob
Pence. Teste: Samuel and James Craig, Jacob Nicolas, Valentine Clon-
inger. Not delivered.
Page 171-19th March, 1772. John Carlisle and Mary ( ) of the Calf
Pasture to Thomas Adams of Parish of Saint Peter and County of New
Kent, £100, tract purchased by said John Carlisle of John Campbell, 250
acres on Great Calfpasture.
Page 174.-18th March, 1772. John Clements (Clemens) and Elizabeth
( ) to John Lyle, Sr. Delivered: Jno. Lyle, 4th March, 1774.
Page 175.-20th March, 1772. Lanty Graham, son and heir of John
Graham, deceased, to James Blayr (taylor), John Graham in his lifetime
had obtained a mortgage of 220 acres whereon said Blair now lives accord-
ing to the patent. Release of the mortgage. Not delivered.
Page 177-21st March, 1772. James Blayr (taylor) and Jean ( ) to
Wililam Young, £65, 220 acres patented to James 10th March, 1756; corner
John Blayr. Teste: John Blair, James Young, William Young. Not de-
livered.
Page 179-17th March, 1772. Abraham Smith to Daniel Henderson.
Release of mortgage dated 18th December, 1769, on Beaver and Spring
Creek. Not delivered.
Page 183.-Teste: George Berry, James Brown, 21st March, 1772.
Page 185.-10 acres, part of 89 acres patented to Robert Reed, 16th
March, 1771. Teste: Patrick Hamilton, Alexander Waddell, Wm. Poage,
Robert Reed and Barbara (mark), Patrick Hamilton and Agness (signed
Ann).
Page 190.-110 acres patented to Robert McKittrick, 12th May, 1759.
Page 192.-19th November, 1771. Hugh Donaho and Elizabeth to
Thomas Rankin. Privy examination of Elizabeth 12th March, 1772.
Page 197.-21st March, 1772. Robert McClenachan and Sarah to Alex-
ander Sinclair (St. Clair), part of lot No. 9 in Staunton, adjoining George
Wilson's lot, 4 acre. Delivered: Alexander St. Clair, 14th May, 1781.
Page 197.-275 acres patented to James Carrell 5th July, 1751, and by
him conveyed to Valintine Pence and by him devised to Peter Miller, his
executor, who devised same to said Valintine, and by him to Hugh Gib-
son ( ).
Page 200.-11th May, 1772. Baptist ( ) McNabb and Kathren ( ) to
Moses Cunningham, of Botetourt County. Teste: Andrew Hays, Robert
Tedford, Andrew McCampbell.
Page 204.-20th May, 1772. George Caldwell to John Caldwell, tract
whereon George now lives; William Caldwell's part of said tract. Teste:
Walter Davis, William Caldwell.
Page 206.-Delivered Mr. William Woodlaw, 18th June, 1787.
Page 215.-John Glasses' corner. Delivered: Hugh Johnston, Septem-
ber, 1773.
519
506
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_007.txt
423
2 to Aug 1751
and the years four
This Indenture made the leventy sixth day of
August Londone thousand seven hundred
one Between Jofeph Love And Marquet Love
his Wifß of the Cementy of Augusts of theo nespart and Bajilion
Witnesseth
Mnals of the a me Corenty of thwother port
that ther Joseph Love and margreshred for and in counders
tion of the wiem of five shillings Currensomoney of Dergence; to -
Baplest bifoes the
themeshand paid by then bra plot Mabbat
Seating and Delivery of there forovence the Recept whores is hire
by Acknowledged Hatte granted bargained and Fold and by thewe
Jerwent doth Grant bargain and sell Units then Baplesmente
one Certain tractor parcel of Land Containing ondbunded
A and seventy one Acres Agency, and being in the Countyed
Cluquote on a bunch of Gross Crech latted kene from burich and
bounded are follow with to wit Beginningaraipanish
Oak and while in hent powe Line Noctiforty light degrees.
one hundred and twenty poler Crossing the branch to a Locust. &
sohite Oak Corner togeorge Robison South Hindiques last
Two hundred poles to a black Oak andishile Oak Comerlothed
Robiniven South seventy hoo Digren Part one hundred and
Thirty Eight Jester Crossing the branch to two while the south
Seventeen degrees west two herrided and forty four poler to the begin
wing and alsomwother trait of Land Containergone hundens &
And therty Seven Are Lying and being in the County ojanguter.
on a branch of Roanoah Called Robinson branch and bourd das
followeth hoch Beginning at allschschbuche
west
buthabout
to Bryan buff South Nove dequer west hee hunded poles loadownst
and while Oak Corner tothed Cuff south there
urly degrees Lovt hornly
507
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_008.txt
Six poter nem a black Oak and white Oak Coiner to Stephen Rent from
South Seventy degras west one funded a red len fioles to wo blacker
Loy. Genge Robinison & I Rent ferr
Jake &
North
içre
aheory Corner lind. Corner to george Robinson, trait.
two hundred and twelvespolering
9
Awowhill Oahvandied Dake northerly minidoque
East one hunded and thirty poles to the begining and owhowou
harde Ways Water Watercourer profite Comonodites
Heredicamento And Appurtenances wholvoever to the premises
Buildings Pacha de Ways
here by granted or any
or any part thereof belonging ouniainy
or wise -
Appur laining and the Reversiori and Preveriore Premunder and
Remainder Kents Iſoner and profits there of To have &
10 hold ther one hunded and swenly one and thed one hunden
Mherty Swen of land bethe
the same morcor dessand
all and singular other the promiser here by Gronted with the
and
A crea
Appuntenances Unto the Baptist Minable and her suurs-
Exuntow Adinton Ande
Assigne from the day before the date here
for and during the full tiim and time of one whole is car from
thenue Nortenfiucing fully to be bom pleat and ended by ading
• And paying there fore thabent of one pepper boise on
C
Ladyday
Nort of the Same Shall: be Lacefully Sumanded to the Intent and
purpose that by Vertue of theve Preven to And of the Statute for
Tandforning love into Profesion then Baptist Malls may be
inactual po sochviord of the premises and be thereby enabled to .
Access and lake agrant and Prelease of the Revasion anding
henta new there of to him and his hein Inwortnesswhored
thed
Joseph Love and margut Love hath here tents set their
havde and Veale the clay and year frist above Wellers
508
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_009.txt
Scaled and Delivered
In the presence of
David Dryden
Alexander MCture
Sanue Jumble –
Tofyphs Love,
Murgret Love Sint
At about hits forang unto County the anday of August-1/52
This Ler ve for Land Indented from Jrp4 Love to Baptic Mytelbwassiriopia.
beant prend by tueathed Dave Dryden Alp. 91718line z James Tumble the
Welnessous Merites Subverted of Margret the surfe of the lood being first prouvately
Examined in Open Court Palenquested for Aught. of Deser
Lean mentioned whate the
Motion of the d
to the Land in this
the linguish meant to belter.
ment_lo. bellas well. the Seave on the
MNable is Romitted to Recad
Zest John Madivon 1864-
Eden?
The foregoing
dowment is
an example
the land deets in Augusta County,
o
Virginia
in 1751. This
one is from
Baptiste MCNABB, 1751,
W4+ Mrs Love to
son
William McNabb, father of David McNatt.
509
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_010.txt
No 686 022
Babtist Matt
009
die hundreds
for Master M Rabbi
Buffellow breek, Joinin
Ben Sonde
re
the Plantation
Atli
Liver..
#686 The above signed by
Coment
John CARTER for Baptist McNabb's
survey on 26 April 1779, Washington
County, North Carolina / Tennessee
Executed. the within preciz
Arccording to the Ten or
There of Dec. 16. 1779
James Sh
afinil 26-1779
510
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_011.txt
LAND RECORDS OF WATAUGAH PURCHASE
Baptist McNabb on the 18th day of November anno dom 17 75
obtained a patenti from this office for a tract of land lying.
on Buffaloe Creek bounded as follows to wit beginning at a
red oak under the Buffaloe Mountain Henry's lying there due
East 51 chains to a red oak corner to the said Henry thence
So 45° E 3 chains to a red oak and dogwood thence No 15° East
de then
:
8 chains to a white oak on a hill side then No. 180 East 25.
chains to a red oak saplin on a hill side thence No 85° West
35 chains to a white on Buffaloe corner to Jisse Benton thence
along the meandering of the said creek near No 8° West 43 chains an
to an Elm on the West side of the créek under a steep hill
thence No 80° West 50 chains to a red oak and White Oak on a
ridge thence So 50° west 25 chains to an Elm in a hollow thence
So 2° East 75 chains to the beginning containing 555 acres more
or less which tract was entered by the said McNABB the third ru
day of April 1775 who allowed a warrant for surveying the same
a plat of which was returned to this office by the hand of i
James Smith Surveyor
PAGE 19, "OLD BOOK "A" WATAUGAH LAND PURCHASE.
PRESENT DAY CARTER COUNTY, TENNESSEE
State of North Carolinas to 108 to allow
Kise presents Shall Come Greeting Know ye that we
For and Inconsideration of the Sum of fifty Shillings
for every hundred acres hereby Grand Bard into our
Treasury By William Metab have grise and Whe
frand
the William
by the of presents delive and Grant undo
Me Nabb a tract of Land Containing fire hundred and seven acc
Beying, and being in our County of Washington on a branch
of Sinking
Creek begining at a black oak corner to Davis
Jode and Doseph Tipton and from thence with Sipotonis
Line South forty four degrees East one hundred and four. Pea
To Two Lickorys Corner to Said Tifoton theree South four
Degrees East Eight Poles to a white oaths Corner to Sipton
thence South, forty degrees Dart Two hundred and twen
Poles to two Spanish boks on a
511
hill side Corner
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_012.txt
and Records For
black Walnut on a hill
one
Sixty
F. Sifotons from thence South fifty mine degrees last one
hundred and forty light poles to all on a
Side Corner to Basdell thence north forty west Righly
Dight poles with said Line to a small Aid ook carner
To said Basdell thence north thirty degrees Dast ninely
Right Poles to a walnut on the Top of a Ridge Corner to
Basdell theres north Seventy degrees west one hundred
and sixteen pooles to a Small white ook Corner to Cooper
Thence North Seventy five degrees west two hundred and
forty fooles to a Stake along Coopers Line and from
Thence South nineteen degrees west one hundred and
poles to the first Corner as by the flat hereunto amment
doth appear together with all woods weaters Mines Minerals
hereditaments and appurtenances to the Said Land belonging
appertaining to hot to the Said William McNabb his heirs
assigns forever Gelding and paying to us such sums of
Money Yearly or otherwise as our General assemble
from Time to Time may direct provided alwas that
The Sald William Mchabt Shall Cause this Grant to
Be Registered in the registeres Office of oursand bounty of
Washington with twelve months from the date here
Otherwise the Some Shall be void and of effect in
Testimony where of we have Cause our beate scal to
hereants officred Alexander Martin Esg our Governor
Captain General and Commander in Chief at fairfield the
Twenty forth day of october in Seventh year of our hide
- e pendance and in the Year of our Lord one thousand
Seven hundred and lighty Two by his Dreelly's com
Glasgow Seat
or
and
=
Washington County, Tenn Deed Book I
p...
59-60-Granted to
William MENABB in 1782, 507 acies
Alex Martin)
512
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_013.txt
State of North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources
Division of Archives and History
AL THE STATE & A
NORTH
CAROLINA
ESSE QUAM VIDERI •
This verifies that the following information is recorded in a
manuscript volume in the custody of the State Archives titled
"Revolutionary Army Accounts" (Volume I , Page 2
Folio 2 ):
Heading: An Account of Specie Certificates paid into the
Comptrollers Office by John Armstrong Entry Taker
for Land in North Carolina
Vizt
Number:
96
By whom Granted:
Williams & Carter
To whom Granted:
Babtis McNabb
Date:
20 June 1782
Sum: 21 pounds, 12 shillings
Interest: 1 pound, 14 shillings, 5 pence
To what Time: 21st Oct. 1783
Total Amount principal and Interest: 23 pounds, 6 shillings, 5 pence
Other information: None
Нийт а
-W. hutchell
81
19_.
Chief, Archives and Records Section
Raleigh, North Carolina
April 30
Re entry in Revolutionary Army Accounts, Volume I, Page 2, Folio 2.
Babtis McNabb was issued a voucher or specie certificate for some unspe-
cified good or service performed by him during the Revolutionary War in
the amount of 21 pounds, 12 shillings. These vouchers were issued by
the state in lieu of cash to finance the war and were negotiable and interest
bearing. McNabb used his voucher to pay the entry fees on a land grant in
what is now eastern Tennessee. John Armstrong, entry taker for western lands,
received McNabb's voucher and turned it in to the State Comptroller's
Office. Edmund Williams and Landon Carter were auditors for the counties
of Washington and Sullivan (now Tennessee) who originally issued the voucher
to McNabb.
513
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_014.txt
434
DAWN OF TENNESSEE VALLEY
Henry Grymes, on s. side of the Holston, 640 a.;
June 21; July 24.
John Jones, in the Fork of Watauga and Holston,
an elm at the head of an island in the Holston, to the
mouth of the Watauga, 230 a.; June 29 (deed).
Isaac Ruddle, on Holston in the mountains, s. bank
97 a.; Aug. 10; Sept. 27.
John Jones, on the Holston, s. bank 210 a.; Nov. I
(deed).
Charles Robertson (brother of James or "Buffalo"
Charles), on east fork of Sinking Creek (environs of
Johnson City), adjoining Jonathan Tipton, Christo-
pher Cunningham and Robert Young, 213 a.; Nov. 1
(deed).
Rice Duncan, on Knob Creek near its head (later the
Deaderick home);' entry sold to John McMahon of
North Carolina.20
Dawn of TN
illiams
History,
The Watauga Preseason City, IN 1937
Judge Valley and TN
ब्र
George Lumpkin, entry on Roane Creek (Johnson
county), including both forks, adjoining (Richard)
Waldridge, 400 a., but deeded to Richard White.
Other patentees in 1775 were, without description
of the lands: George Russell (2), Andrew Greer (2),
Wm. Bean, Jr., Benjamin Pyburn, from Pittsylvania,
Baptist and John McNabb, from Augusta," Andrew
Little, from Fincastle, James Hollis, from Botetourt,
John Cassady, from the Valley of Virginia, Christo-
pher Shoate, from Pittsylvania, Thomas Farrer, from
Virginia, Jacob Chamberlain, from Virginia, Christo-
pher Cunningham, from Shenandoah," James Cooper,
See Williams, "Journal of David A. Deaderick," in E. T. Historical
Soc. Pubs., VIII, 134.
10 McMahon was the first register of deeds of Washington county.
When he located on this tract in 1774, his cabin home was the farthest
to the west of all settlements on the waters of the Watauga. Ib.
" Ancestor of Dr. Samuel B. Cunningham, first president of the
East Tennessee & Virginia Railroad Company-now a part of the
Southern Railway Company-between Bristol and Knoxville.
Augusta County, Virginia
AND TENNESSEE HISTORY
435
from Botetourt, Henry Massengill, from North Caro-
lina, James Abbot, from Botetourt, James Walding
(Walden or Walling), from Pittsylvania, John Bean,
Thomas Gresham, from Pittsylvania, Ambrose Hodge,
entry covering a part of site of Johnson City, Richard
Bennett, from Pittsylvania, Richard Fletcher, from
Pittsylvania, neighbor of Bean, George Reeves,"
brother-in-law of James Robertson, Samuel Denton,
from Shenandoah, James Smith, from North Carolina,
Jesse Benton," from North Carolina, Elijah Robert-
son, brother of James, George Gray, from Pittsylvania,
neighbor of Bean, Charles Thompson and John
Cassady.
Other settlers prior to 1776 located as shown below,
dates of settlement approximated: Michael Hyder
(1772), from Hampshire county, Virginia, on waters
of Buffalo Creek; ancestor of Landon C. Haynes, and
Governors Robert L. and Alfred A. Taylor.
John Williams (1773-4) on Gap Creek of Watauga,
from the Valley of Virginia, brother of Jarret Wil-
liams, the Indian trader. John was at Pt. Pleasant,
1774.
Gilbert Christian (1774) at the Long Island, site of
Kingsport.
Thomas Shoate, from Pittsylvania, (1773-4) near
Blountville.
Richard Shoate, from Pittsylvania, (1773-4) on
head of Hickory Creek, Sullivan county.
Edward Cox, from Baltimore county, Maryland,
(1774) one mile northeast of Bluff City, on Southern
Railway.
12 William Reeves was also a settler, seemingly a brother of George
Reeves.
13 For Benton: ante, p. 406.
514
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_015.txt
380
DAWN OF TENNESSEE VALLEY
Virginia and beyond. The matter of salt presented a
grave problem to the Wataugans; there were no salt
springs or licks in the valley where they were located.
Fortunately there was such a lick above the settlements
and there about 1773 salt was made from water im-
pregnated by a sub-surface deposit of solid rock salt.
This was at the present Saltville, in Virginia, and not
far from the main road above described.
Mills for the grinding of grain also began to appear.
That of Baptist McNabb on Buffalo Creek of Watauga
seems to have been the first; but it was soon followed
by that of John Sharp, Jr., near the mouth of one of
the creeks of Holston, in the limits of the present county
of Sullivan.
The markets from which the merchants in the settle-
ments obtained stocks of goods were Philadelphia,
Baltimore and the towns in the lower (northern part)
of the Shenandoah Valley, Winchester, Strasburg, and
Staunton. It is probable that these Virginia towns
were chief sources, as dealers there had closer touch
with the western folk.' Goods were hauled to Win-
chester and Strasburg by wagons from ports on
Chesapeake Bay, the distance from which to Win-
chester was about eighty miles, through Ashby's Gap
of the Blue Ridge and across Ashby's Ferry of the
Shenandoah.
Late in September or early in October, 1773, Daniel
Boone with his own and five other families passed
Said by an early writer to be more than 175 feet thick. Wells 200
feet deep were later sunk, tapping the salt water. This event meant
much to the people of the Upper Old Southwest; and the salt works
figured large in the development of Tennessee's commerce in succeed-
ing generations.
Among these were Alexander Machir of Strasburg, with whom
Andrew Greer and Wm. Bean dealt, 1775: Consult, Malone, "Fal-
mouth and the Shenandoh Trade" in Am. Hist. Review, XL, 693-703.
north from Unicoi
# Now (1989) Buffalo break un
cty to the Watauga River in Carter County, Tenn., just west
of Elizabethton, Tenn.
AND TENNESSEE HISTORY
381
through the settlements, on the way to the Kentucky
country to form a small colony in those dangerous
wilds. As the party was approaching Cumberland
Gap, on October 10th a group in the rear was attacked
by Indians, jealous of the white invasion of their hunt-
ing grounds. Five men were killed, including Boone's
eldest son, James. This so discouraged the adven-
turers that they gave over the attempt and fell back
to Clinch River, where Boone resided for some time.
To the frustrated party it seemed that the attack and
slaughter was by Shawnees, and was precursor of a
general uprising by that and other western tribes.
Indeed, throughout 1773 the dread of such an up-
rising had hung like a pall over the inhabitants on the
western frontiers of Virginia, and this unprovoked
massacre was to them a harbinger of evil. The western
tribes were sullen, and at Detroit were trading their
peltry for powder and ball.
The fore-gleam of war did not, however, give pause
to the land-hungry and alert leaders of Virginia. They
continued active in efforts to secure choice lands in the
Tennessee region. Patrick Henry, Wm. Byrd, III'
John Page and Colonel William Christian, brother-
in-law of Henry, planned to purchase of the Chero-
kees a large boundary in that region, and Christian sent
William Kennedy of the Valley of Virginia to treat
with the Indians. Nothing came of the scheme."
Colonel John Donelson, of Pittsylvania county, after
running the ministerial line set about to acquire lands
in the neighborhood of the line, and in June, 1774, he
ran the Virginia-North Carolina boundary line due
"The persistence of Byrd in efforts to secure Tennessee lands is
to be remarked.
Calendar Va. St. Papers, I, 208, 288, 303.
515
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_016.txt
Washington bounty, Tenn
13-47, P34, F204
Files of Secy of
State
J
Raleigh, N.C.
No. Carolina
to a
Norks 412 Polic
at 641
Baptis M. Kabh
بلعبة 600
Nas Wa
N00 W 224x
This plot is the form of a track gland
Surveyed for Staples McNabb Desring
Fituste lying and being in Worth bardin
Washington County on the Hillside
of Bruffle back a branch of Haugh-
laughgas ower Begining al die
White Baker mer the Puffle
1.20 & 410 poles
Moughntain and from thence
East One hundred and forty mine.
Poles to a black Bake and Dogada
corner to Sam. Henry Jun and from
Penar Due North Fore hundred
and Wolvi poles Down the brut
to an Elleme
on Blue Wallvide
of the Greek conner to Sam
Homy Sen thena North B
What Degries World Fox handien
and windly for poles to
Two White bakr converte
ſaid Henry thence South
Jefry Segrees Herol, ornity
Twenty
thence Son
Make of Famer Henry's Line and from
Degrees Bart. Four hundred and Eigation poles totta find Corner.
an hele of an hundred
Containing Six hundred acres igaland ploted by an
Equal parts to an Euch
James Smart C.S
County.
Name
Namo
Acres.
No. 204
Wachtige
me nabt, Baptist
600.
Grant No. 72
ら
Issued 23" Oct, 1782
Entered
10c
:
686
Warrant No.
Entry No..
1778
34
Book No. 217 Page No..
Location On West side
Bow Creek
Buflow
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_017.txt
State of N. Carolina Washington Coimb
December 29. 1779-
A. 2367] To the Son & P. Counter
Gribing you Ai heider Requer?le Se
Jaunding
The South wild Side his sta
Given und in May Landet Bf. thin
Indonte
Files of: Sury of State of No. Carolina
Raleigh, N.C. 27603-5909
Washington County, Tenn.
B-43, P-315, F51
81.
County...
• No. SINNESBEE
Bachington
Name The List Baptist
Acres 112
Grant No....
341
Issued. Ret 27-1782
Entry No..
2367
Warrant No..
Entered
23 Dec. 1779
Book No.
43
Page No.....
2/5-
Location
Joining his other
Furry 640 acces
Buffalow Cent
on
147 and
Bapter Mass.
مهه
92367
Aug 21-1780
сидент
517
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_018.txt
518
12367
Daplis
112.
Morghulain
Pled is the form of a los
and Surveyed for Staple
M
Ser. 16170 Situate tying and being.
in North Carolina Wartungton
County Corning his Other Survey.
of Sex hundred Reves on Buffle
Dahu
Creek Beginingal two While corou
If the finis Survey and from shones
Heed Eighly polis to a Blachöcker.
and White Cake.
the side of the
Buffle Morghulain and thenis
North Din Degree Wert Than
"hundred and - Ninety for policeborg
The Side of the Foreffle Hought
- to the find! Sunary, and
tradtaket.
from there South Aventy Degene
=
of
Earl fore hundred and bighten
"poles to the fined commer
ex containity
One hunded and Two
Land pooled by an Mcale of an
fundies Equal parts to an Inch
James Sheart C. &
(519-20-21
MOVED trenumbered)
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_019.txt
NOTE: PAGES 519,520,521
ARE MOVED AND RENUMBERED
BY W.C. DAVIDSON
W. MEN BB
ल
07-30-2001
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_020.txt
• Washington (o. N. Will Book I
'
in
Baptist Mc Nabbs will 4 Jan. 1784
Proved may succions 1784
In the same of god Amen Min fourth day of January
In the year of our Lord Chrst one thousand is wen hindeſ
and Elginety four I Baptist Mr Habb of the ousity of
Washington Emmy and state of North Corralinating
juckaver weak im body bit of perfuel mind and memory.
Calling to mind the mortality of this my state and
that it is appointed for all men once to die do make
and onder this to be my hast will and Pestamenita
vay Prensablely and first of all I Recomm
Noul to god who gave il and my baby to thecart
be buried in
a Decent and Chrislanofle manner at the
Disination of my excesitors and funther such worldling good
there with it pleased god to bliss me with I give
me ughts I give and dispose
of in manner as followith
is to
will
و
my
to
t
First of all I orden and it is my will that all ing Just and¬
how full deble bed and fusional Phanges be paid of by my
Excecutors
one Cou
Ido gave and bequeath, un to my daugher Isabella Afyabb
my live marco and Cottorand a bed and /umniture
her choice of Histock at
and
household fumitu
'my decease and all and query pant of my
Caly she has now got live more herek
To Likewise orden that my executors make a right to the trans
I hand that I
myvon
Table
to that forsket of gave to my sternity in Jake and Reducin
Davidin
Which now live on I do giice unto my von ganiesett Sitaly
with ilo improve iments upon condition that it be valucity
three indifferent. persons to be chosen by The Legaless he
hancing he begaties pants the others to be paid in man
following foin one year after my decase that is to say to
to
abb Johnett "Sable Dand M " Nath and
Isabella Math and in case that he should repucets
Take said; Hand on than conditions that it be sold and
The monty arising there from to be divided amongst hie
• Legales in mannen aforward-
And that all the stock and moveables not other wis dundeed
be vote and & quially decided between a mogst the Legatus and
Cave Isabellault "Nabb should die in her image
12
Harl should be dunded amongst the other Legater aforesaid
And Po Leave and be queath unto my Daughter Naryalista
Mallora
Mr Saby Jeanett "Nabs, and Shamest i Sable
WASHINGTON Co. Town/NC Will Book I
522
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_021.txt
von
Jiwe shillings at to be paid to them one year & flowing
Decease by the other Ligates
And i Convllute my.
Jöhnell Natt and Davidit "Nabh
to be vote Executors of this my hoot will and Testament and
Do hereby Revoke and Dis ancill and make void all Otti
Wills and Sextaments by me heretofore maid and constitutet,
Conferming. Approving this and no other to be my Last
dwill and Testament sighned seald Published and gnarlaun
in presence of us.
Mall Nobb
Agnys Campbell
Children mentioned. in Baptist McNabbi's Will
hris
Baptis
Billa
mach.
Ischella
John
David
games
William
mary.
Manganet
Jean/Jane!
Katun / Kathrinel
523
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_022.txt
BAPTIST MCNABB WILL
In the name of God Amen. This fourth day of January in
the year of our Lord Christ one thousand Seven hundred and
eighty four I Baptist McNabb of the County of Washington and
State of North Carolina being sick & weak in body but of perfect
mind and memory calling to mind the mortality of this my state
and that it is appointed for all men once to die do make and
order this to be my last will and testament that is to say
principally and first of all I recomend my soul to God who gave
it and my body to the earth to be buried in a decent and
Christanable manner at the desonation of my executors and further
such worldly good where with it pleased God to bless me with I
give and dispose of in manner as followth - First of all I order
& it is my will that all my just and lawful debts and funeral
charges be paid of by my executors
-
I do give and bequeath
unto my daughter Isabella McNabb my two mares and colts and a
bed and furniture one cow and calf Such as now got two more her
choice of the stock at my decease & all & every part of my
household furniture
-
I do likewise order that my executors make
a wright to the tract of land that I gave to my son John McNabb
& likewise to the tract of land that I gave to my son David
McNabb, the other part where I now live on I do give unto my son
JAMES
McNabb and his heirs with its improvements upon condition
that it be valued by three indifferent persons to be chosen by
the legatees he having two legatees parts the other parts to be
paid in manner following In one year after my decease that is
to say to Wm McNabb John McNabb David McNabb & Isabella McNabb
and in case that he should refuse to take said land on these
conditions that it be sold and the money arising therefrom be
524
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_023.txt
Abstracts of Wills—Washington County, Tennessee
P. 5-Will of Adam Broyles.
April 19, 1782. Eldest son, Moses; ss. Aaron and Joshua; d. Milla
Panther; Mima Broyles. Negroes and Kentucky lands; d-Anne
Brown; Friends Joseph Brown, Moses Broyles and William Moore.
Teste: John X Waddle, Coonrod Willpightle, Mathias Broyles.
May Sessions, 1782.
P. 6-Will of John Nodding, Nov. 6, 1782:
Wife, Priscilla-Slaves and land.
Teste: Samuel Wood, James Scott.
February Sessions, 1783.
P. 6-Will of Peter Kuykendall, Feb. 17, 1783:
Son, Jesse slave and land; d. Jane; s. Adam; d. Elizabeth; s. Matthew;
6. Peter; ch. Mary, Ruthy, Rebecca, Offay.
Brother, Abraham, executor.
Teste: Andrew Thompson, John Kuykendall, Robert Irwin.
May Sessions, 1783.
P. 7-Will of Baptist McNabb:
Jan. 4, 1784, "Washington County, North Carolina." d. Isabella
McNabb; ss. John, David, Jonathan; ds. Mary, Margaret, Jane, Ketrin.
Sons John and David, exécutors.
Teste: Wm. McNabb, Agness Campbell, John Campbell.
May Sessions, 1784.
P. 8-Will of Thomas Mitchell:
North Carolina, Washington County, June 14, 1784.
d. Margaret McAdow; s. James; d. Elizabeth Thompson; s. Thomas;
d. Sarah Mitchell.
Teste: Robert Irwin, Mary Irwin.
August Sessions, 1784.
P. 9 Will of Randolph Crecelias:
Jan. 7, 1787. Wife, Elizabeth; ss. Isaac, John, Jacob. Ch. John,
Elizabeth, Barberry, Catherine, Isaac, Dolly, Margaret, Jacob.
Teste: James Cash, Abraham Riffe, Philip X Coussions.
November Sessions, 1787..
P. 10 Will of Andrew Taylor:
May 22nd, 1787, "ch. Washington County, State of North Carolina."
Wife, Ann; sons Isaac, David McNabb, Andrew Taylor, Nathaniel
42
Tennessee Soldiers in the American Revolution
Taylor; Matthew; "till youngest child Rhoda comes of age." d. Rebecca,
slaves to each child.
Teste: John Hyder, William English.
November Session, 1787.
P. 12-Will of John Fain:
July 15, 1788. Wife, Agnes, sons to share equally. d. Ruth Fain
negro "Punch."
Teste: Rosannah X Fain.
November Sessions, 1788.
P. 12 Will of John Bullard:
Oct. 15, 1780, wife, Mary Bullard.
Teste: Joseph X Nation, Elinor X Nation, Ann X Bullard.
November Sessions, 1780.
P. 13. Will of John Cox:
Oct. 19, 1777. sons, Abraham and William two negroes; ds. Jane
and Agnes; "slaves I should have had from my father's estate." Abraham
and William Cox and John Sevier, Exs.
Teste: John Carter, Christopher Cunningham, Emanuel Carter.
No date of probate.
P. 13-Will of Christopher Cunningham:
Nov. 10, 1782. Wife Mary; my fifteen children: Elizabeth Gatril,
Susannah Robertson, Lyddia Cunningham, John Cunningham, Mary Job,
Ann Orr, Sarah Cunningham, Jane Cunningham, Jacob, Joseph, Matthew,
Moses, Aaron, Elinor, David.
Ds. Elizabeth Gatril and Susannah Robertson to have no part in legacy
that John Musgrove left Mary, my wife. "Till youngest child come
of age.
Mathew Talbot and Joseph Tipton, Exs.
Teste: Robert Orr, Isaac Taylor.
May Sessions, 1783.
P. 15-Will of Robert Fowler:
Sept. 22, 1784. Mother, Ann Fowler; child Esther Fowler.
Exs. William Fowler and Wife Agnes Fowler.
Teste: Abed'o. Inman, Adam Willson, Molly Inman.
August Sessions, 1785.
P. 15-Will of Thomas Dillard:
May 13, 1784. Wife one half of slaves. Ch. Benjamin, Winnesophi:
525A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_024.txt
BAPTISTE MCNABB, SENIOR, DID NOT HAVE A SON NAMED WILLIAM
by Walter Craig Davidson
I believe the lineage is thus: James McNabb father of William
McNabb, Senior; Wm. McNabb, Senior, father of William McNabb,
Junior; William McNabb, Junior, father of Baptiste McNabb, Senior,
Baptiste McNabb, Senior (b.ca 1720 d. Jan 4, 1784, Washington
County, North Carolina/Tennessee) father of three sons,i.e.,
John, David & Jonathan (James) and five daughters, i.e., Isabella,
Mary, Margaret, Jane and Ketrin. These eight children are shown
by name in the Will of Baptiste McNabb dated 4 Jan 1784. A copy
of the Will both in the original and in the typescript, are
included herewith. Also included is a copy of page 41 from the
book TENNESSEE SOLDIERS IN THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, Chapter
Abstracts of Wills--Washington County, Tennessee, which refers
the reader to P. 7--Will of Baptist McNabb.
A careful reading of the Will reveals that Baptiste McNabb went to
some length to identify his children as such, by calling them
individually as son or daughter, by name. When he came to the
identification of William McNabb in the Will, Baptiste charged
him to pay attention to the wishes being expressed by Baptiste
McNabb; however, the document does not identify William as a son,
even when Baptiste McNabb addresses William McNabb directly. To
wit "that is to say to Wm McNabb..
Baptiste McNabb does not identify William McNabb as a son, is
because the William McNabb under discussion here, is the father
of Baptiste. The proof of this assertation,i.e., that Baptiste
McNabb did not have a son named William, can be found in the
ABSTRACTS of WILLS for Washington County, Tennessee. William
is not mentioned as a son but is shown as a Teste: to the Will.
.." And the reason that
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_025.txt
Fathers, brothers, cousins, uncles and others could sign as
a witness, but not sons & daughters. It was a custom so
strongly enforced, that in the forty-five years that I have
been assiduously researching the McNabbs (and seven other
families), I have not yet found an exception.
In the 1770's, shortly after William, Baptiste and Baptiste's
family moved from Augusta County, Virginia to Washington County,
NC/Tenn., Baptiste McNabb, Senior, built the first grist mill in
Tennessee. Shortly thereafter, William McNabb, Junior, was elected
to the Washington County, NC/Tenn Court system. It does not seem
likely that the local citizens would have supported such an election,
if the person so elected was in his late teens or early twenties.
Which would have been the case, if there had been a son of Baptiste
named William. Rather, such an election is understandable if the
person, even one relatively new to the area, was of some maturity
and probably had been well known elsewhere---in this case Augusta
County, Virginia, whence many of these local to Washington County,
NC/Tenn., people came.
An early McNabb family researcher, Daniel T. Brennan, shows William
McNabb, Junior, as having died in Wautauga (h) County, NC/Tenn in
1784, which is now in North Carolina. Another account has him dying
in what is now Carter Co., Tenn., and being buried in the "Watauga
Old Fields", which is another name for the fields where crops were
grown by the native Indian tribes.
Like so much of our clan history, more research needs to be done
and without a lucky break, here and there, we will never quite
finish; however, at least we know that Baptiste McNabb, Senior,
did not have a son named William.
Whe
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_026.txt
Abstracts of Wills-Washington County, Tennessee
P. 5-Will of Adam Broyles.
41
April 19, 1782. Eldest son, Moses; 53. Aaron and Joshua; d. Milla
Panther; Mima Broyles. Negroes and Kentucky lands; d-Anne
Brown; Friends Joseph Brown, Moses Broyles and William Moore.
Teste: John X Waddle, Coonrod Willpightle, Mathias Broyles.
May Sessions, 1782.
P. 6-Will of John Nedding, Nov. 6, 1782:
Wife, Priscilla-Slaves and land.
Teste: Samuel Wood, James Scott.
February Sessions, 1783.
P. 6-Will of Peter Kuykendall, Feb. 17, 1783:
Son, Jesse slave and land; d. Jane; s. Adam; d. Elizabeth; s. Matthew;
6. Peter; ch. Mary, Ruthy, Rebecca, Offay.
Brother, Abraham, executor.
Teste: Andrew Thompson, John Kuykendall, Robert Irwin.
May Sessions, 1783.
P. 7-Will of Baptist McNabb:
Jan. 4, 1784, "Washington County, North Carolina." d. Isabella
McNabb; ss. John, David, Jonathan; ds. Mary, Margaret, Jane, Ketrin.
Sons John and David, executors.
Teste: Wm. McNabb, Agness Campbell, John Campbell.
May Sessions, 1784.
P. 8 Will of Thomas Mitchell:
North Carolina, Washington County, June 14, 1784.
d. Margaret McAdow; s. James; d. Elizabeth Thompson; s. Thomas;
d. Sarah Mitchell.
Teste: Robert Irwin, Mary Irwin.
August Sessions, 1784.
P. 9 Will of Randolph Crecelias:
Jan. 7, 1787. Wife, Elizabeth; ss. Isaac, John, Jacob. Ch. John,
Elizabeth, Barberry, Catherine, Isaac, Dolly, Margaret, Jacob.
Teste: James Cash, Abraham Riffe, Philip X Coussions.
November Sessions, 1787..
P. 10 Will of Andrew Taylor:
May 22nd, 1787, "ch. Washington County, State of North Carolina.'
Wife, Ann; sons Isaac, David McNabb, Andrew Taylor, Nathaniel
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_027.txt
BAPTIST MCNABB WILL
In the name of God Amen. This fourth day of January in
the year of our Lord Christ one thousand Seven hundred and
eighty four I Baptist McNabb of the County of Washington and
State of North Carolina being sick & weak in body but of perfect
mind and memory calling to mind the mortality of this my state
and that it is appointed for all men Conce to die do make and
order this to be my last will and testament that is to say
principally and first of all I recomend my soul to God who gave
it and my body to the earth to be buried in a decent and
Christanable manner at the desonation of my executors and further
such worldly good where with it pleased God to bless me with I
give and dispose of in manner as followth
-
First of all I order
& it is my will that all my just and lawful debts and funeral
charges be paid of by my executors - I do give and bequeath
unto my daughter Isabella McNabb my two mares and colts and a
bed and furniture one cow and calf Such as now got two more her
choice of the stock at my decease & all & every part of my
household furniture - I do likewise order that my executors make
a wright to the tract of land that I gave to my son John McNabb
& likewise to the tract of land that I gave to my son David
McNabb, the other part where I now live on I do give unto my son
Jonethan McNabb and his heirs with its improvements upon condition
that it be valued by three indifferent persons to be chosen by
the legatees he having two legatees parts the other parts to be
paid in manner following In one year after my decease that is
to say to Wm McNabb John McNabb David McNabb & Isabella McNabb
and in case that he should refuse to take said land on these
conditions that it be sold and the money arising therefrom be
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_028.txt
Is
who you
Na
ཁ ༧ ༥ ྃ
Nabb wa
Named
42
Tennessee Soldiers in the American Revolution
Taylor; Matthew; "till youngest child Rhoda comes of age." d. Rebecca,
slaves to each child.
Teste: John Hyder, William English.
November Session, 1787.
P. 12-Will of John Fain:
July 15, 1788. Wife, Agnes, sons to share equally. d. Ruth Fain
negro "Punch."
Teste: Rosannah X Fain.
November Sessions, 1788.
P. 12-Will of John Bullard:
Oct. 15, 1780, wife, Mary Bullard.
Teste: Joseph X Nation, Elinor X Nation, Ann X Bullard.
November Sessions, 1780.
P. 13. Will of John Cox:
Oct. 19, 1777. sons, Abraham and William two negroes; ds. Jane
and Agnes; "slaves I should have had from my father's estate."
and William Cox and John Sevier, Exs.
Abraham
Teste: John Carter, Christopher Cunningham, Emanuel Carter.
No date of probate.
P. 13-Will of Christopher Cunningham:
Nov. 10, 1782. Wife Mary; my fifteen children: Elizabeth Gatril,
Susannah Robertson, Lyddia Cunningham, John Cunningham, Mary Job,
Ann Orr, Sarah Cunningham, Jane Cunningham, Jacob, Joseph, Matthew,
Moses, Aaron, Elinor, David.
Ds. Elizabeth Gatril and Susannah Robertson to have no part in legacy
that John Musgrove left Mary, my wife. "Till youngest child come
of age."
Mathew Talbot and Joseph Tipton, Exs.
Teste: Robert Orr, Isaac Taylor.
May Sessions, 1783.
P. 15-Will of Robert Fowler:
Sept. 22, 1784. Mother, Ann Fowler; child Esther Fowler.
Exs. William Fowler and Wife Agnes Fowler.
Teste: Abed'o. Inman, Adam Willson, Molly Inman.
August Sessions, 1785.
P. 15-Will of Thomas Dillard:
May 13, 1784. Wife one half of slaves. Ch. Benjamin, Winnesophi:
748
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_029.txt
divided amongst the legatees in manner aforesaid -/ and that all
che stock and moveables not otherwise devided be sold and equally
divided between amongst the legatees and in case Isabella McNabb
should die in her non age that her part should be divided the
other legatees aforesaid and I do leave and bequeath unto my
daughters Mary McNabb Margaret McNabb Jane McNabb and Katrin
-
McNabb five shillings to be paid to them one year after my
decease by the other legatees and I constitute my sons John
-
McNabb and David McNabb to be sole excutors of this my last
will & testament and I do hereby revoke and disanull and make
void all other wills and testaments by me heretofore made
and constitute by confirming approving this and
no other to be my last will and testament Syned and published
and proclaimed in the presence of us.
his
Baptist B McNabb
mark
Seal
Wm McNabb)
Agnus Campbell)
John Campbell)
The foregoing will was proven in court
by the Oathes of Wm McNabb and John
Campbell two of the subscribing witnesses
thereto at May Session 1784 and recorded
at length.
May 18, 1784 Will Proven
Typescript by:
Doris L. Davidson
10 December 1988
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_030.txt
•
mening
2,177. ✓ -
In the year of
and
4 Jan. 1784
Baptist Me Nabbs will
Proved may buccions 1784
In The name of god amen this fourth day of January.
Our Lord Christ one thousand is wien hinder
Eighty four I Baptist McNabb of the city of
Washington Examaly and state of North Carralinating
Juch and weak on body bit of perfeel mind and rumory
Calling to mind the mortality of this my state and
: that if in appounted for all men once to die do make
and onder this to be my hast will and Pestament t
is to
vay Drivablely and first of all I Recommend
Noul to god whis gaveil and my baby to the earth to
be buried in
a Decent and Chrislan äffle manner at the
Disinction of my Exceritors and fromther such worldling good
me utt, I give and dispose
First of all I orden and it is my will that all my Instand-
how full deble began and sunonal shanges be paid of by my
un to my daugher Isabella Nyath
my live mario and Cottor and a bed and /umture on come
care caly chuchas now
it live more then chover of Histock at
scholdfumitu
و
uture with it pleased god to bliss me with, I gue
will
of in mannen as followith
Executors
--
Do qive and bequeaths
and the
nowg.
my decease and all and every pant of my
ލމ
Do tebe i orden that my preceators make a right to the trans
of hand that I gave to myson Joliett"-tabb and dikena
the that brackt I gave my son Davidin Habb the other Pasifi
his O
I
now Live
on I do piece unto my von
Janiinteitaly
with ilo improve iments upon condition that it be valued by
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_031.txt
party
three indifferent persons to be chosen by The Legaless the
haveing his Legatees pants the other to be paid in ma
following fo in one year after my decase that is to say to.
1876 Johmitt Natt Dand M. "Habbard.
Isabella all Bath and in case that he should resets
lake said: Land
ކ
on those conditions that ill be sold and
The monty arising there from to be divided amongst the
Legalisin
maman
a/orward
And that all the stock and moveatles not other wis dundeed.
be vole and equally divided between a megst the Legaters and
in Cavesabellault "Nabb should die in her Mean age thathen
Lant should be dunded amongst the other Legatis aforesaid
And Po Leave and be queath unto my Danger Margalleta
At Path Granellasp and Sharenette Sabf.
Five shellings at to be paid to thin one year aftering
ad
Deceave by the other Legatess
And i Convllite sy son Jotinell "Natt and David it "Nabp
to devote precculons of this my Lost Will and Testamentand
Do here by Revoke and Dis awwell and make void all Ottinin
Wills and Testaments by
heretoformaid and constitubele
Confirming Azeproving this and no other to be my Lovt
Avill and Testament signed seald Published and
in grevence of us
2222
Agings Cambell
Baptis
Ma
mach.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_032.txt
divided amongst the legatees in manner aforesaid -/ and that all
the stock and moveables not otherwise devided be sold and equally
divided between amongst the legatees and in case Isabella McNabb
should die in her non age that her part should be divided the
divided
other legatees aforesaid - and I do leave and bequeath unto my
daughters Mary McNabb Margaret McNabb Jane McNabb and Katrin
McNabb five shillings to be paid to them one year after my
decease by the other legatees and I constitute my sons John
-
McNabb and David McNabb to be sole excutors of this my last
will & testament and I do hereby revoke and disanull and make
void all other wills and testaments by me heretofore made
and constitute by confirming approving this and
no other to be my last will and testament Syned and published
and proclaimed in the presence of us.
his
Baptist B McNabb
mark
Seal
Wm McNabb)
Agnus Campbell)
John Campbell)
court
The foregoing will was proven in
by the Oathes of Wm McNabb and John
Campbell two of the subscribing witnesses
thereto at May Session 1784 and recorded
at length.
May 18, 1784 Will Proven
Typescript by:
Doris L. Davidson
10 December 1988
who was
Bay
The Wm MCNABB who
witnemel
the Well is the father of
the father of Baptist.
Wm. McNabb d. in
-ven, us
<
a ber
beneficiary of
not eligible to witness it.
1789
The Wm,
the well, was
525
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_033.txt
5003 20
IN SEARCH OF WILLIAM MCNABB-
--by Walter Craig Davidson
First, I should like to point out that after 45 years of
researching the McNabb clan, I have never found even the
slightest shred of evidence or documentation that Wm.
McNabb, father of Baptiste & the other children, came from
Scotland or, indeed, had anything whatsoever to do with
Scotland. Further, I have not seen even a pretense to such
documentation in the research results written by anyone else.
Thus, before one disagrees with the following account of
Wm. McNabb's history, let them present a better documented
research result.
The account of Wm. McNabb living, marrying and moving from
Glendochart, Scotland to Virginia ca. 1740's has never seemed
valid to me. (WCD) If he had left the children and emmigrated
alone, it would have made more sense, as he could have always
sent for them or gone back after them. But to take off to the
Colonies with five children ranging in ages from 5 or 6 to 12
or 13, just never seemed to me to be what a prudent Scot would
do; especially just after the death of his wife, Betty Aiken,
or Aken, McNabb. I have evidence, presented in the following
pages, that there is more than a possibility that Wm. McNabb,
he of the 1749 land deed in Augusta Co., Virginia, came from
Dansbury (Now Stroudsburg) Monroe Co., Penn., where his father
Wm. McNabb, Senior, was a blacksmith* ca. 1720's. Also in the
Lower Smithfield Township of Dansbury, Delaware Valley,
Shawnee, (Bethlehem), and Wind Gap, was Gideon van Aken, who
lived in Wind Gap and was probably the father of the first
wife of Wm. McNabb, Junior, Betty Aiken or Aken.
**
Possibly, the McNabbs of Dansbury, Penn. (Now Stroudsburg) descend
from James Micknab (McNabb) who sailed from Downes, England
December 8, 1651, aboard the "John & Sarah"--Master John Greene
and landed in Boston, Mass., before 24 February 1652. James
went to work for the Lynn Iron Works. Keep in mind that under
the Guild system, the McNabb Clan had a long history as armorers*
This at a time in history when the occupation of the father
fairly well determined the occupation of the sons; however, not
exclusively so. In any case, 70 years after James McNabb went
to work in the iron works, Wm. McNabb, Senior, was a blacksmith,
in Monroe County, Penn..
**I am endebted to Carol Fortenbacher, Nunica, Mi., whose
research established the fact of the McNabb Clan as armorers,
in Scotland.
At a time when it was necessary to execute an Oath of Impor-
tation in Orange County, Virginia, in order to obtain a grant
of land in Virginia, not one but several exhaustive searches
of the records of Orange County, Va. failed to provide the
researcher with any evidence that Wm. McNabb had ever made
such an oath. Yet, he received a grant in 1749 in Augusta Co.,
Virginia. Thus there is reason to believe that he was born in
the Colonies, was a white male citizen, and did not need an Oath,
in order to receive a grant. There are records of Oaths given by
immigrants, dated both before and after the 1749 date of Wm.
McNabb's grant but none for him.
%
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_034.txt
Does anyone really believe that Wm. McNabb embarked for the
Colonies with five children having an age spread of from
about 5 or 6 to 12 or 13? This at a time when passengers
furnished their own food, water and sanitary items. If he
did, it seems more than likely that his name and the names of
his children would be listed in three places; one, on the
list of those embarking at the port be it England, Scotland
Ireland or whereever; two, on the passenger list of the ship
itself; three, as a new arrival at some port in the Colonies.
With literally hundreds of researchers seeking such information,
over the years, if any list, or partial list existed, it would
have been found long before now. And the reason such information
has not been found is because all of the persons we are seeking
were born in or near Monroe County, Penn.
Another factor to be considered: Baptiste'--Does it seem even
possible that a Scotsman in Scotland would name his first born
son Baptist, a name usually reserved for a religious group.
While one cannot be absolutely certain, Baptiste', would be a
name that comes from the common Latin spoken by the Roman
soldiers in France, Spain, Portugal, Austria & Italy. It was
probably the first name of a Moravian missionary who was
admired by Wm. McNabb and his wife, Betty Aiken. The entire
Moravian Missionary Diaries is available to one at the Monroe
County, Penn., Historical Society or at the Virginia State
Library, Richmond, Virginia. The latter being a copy that I
donated to the State Library. The few pages that are included
with this article, I have extracted for the purpose of
identification of both McNabb and his occupation, i.e., smith.
I do not know about right now but I do know that from about
1675 to 1775 there were no persons named Aiken within 200 miles
of Glendochart. OR if there were persons of that name, they
were amazingly adept at escaping the written record of such
name. I have been unable to find a sept with a name even close
to Aiken, in all of Scotland. However, on extract page 68,
a list of the inhabitants of Wind Gap (Penn.), shows Gideon
van Aken living a few miles from Wm. McNabb. And as most
genealogists come to realize, slight differences in the
spelling of names is more the norm than otherwise. One can
imagine all sorts of scenarios about Wm. McNabb finding Betty
elsewhere and marrying her; however, where are the records of
not only such an event but the births of the children seem to
be also unrecorded. Finally, why is there no record of the death
and burial of Betty Aiken, in Scotland?
Having taught Advanced Research Techniques as a graduate school
professor, at the University of Colorado in Boulder, I am well
acquainted with the maxim "One can draw no inference from
silence." With that in mind concerning the above observations
about the absence of Wm. McNabb & family records in Scotland,
let us examine the evidence for such residence in Monroe County,
Penn. circa 1700 to 1747-48.
2.
* *
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_035.txt
"July 18. The text of yesterday impelled me to visit several
homes, and it comforted me. At Francis Jones' it was notable
for me to hear that his youngest daughter, who is six weeks
old, before Br. Pyrlaeus baptized her, had always been restless
and cranky, afterwards would always lie cheerfully and quietly
by herself. For John McMichael's house I wished peace and
Mack and
blessings, and the footsteps of the Brethern Martin
others, who had formerly been there, refreshed me. At John
Hillman's I felt good also. Here a bridge has been built for
Br. Joseph's sake, when they heard that he was coming. At
Joseph Hayn's (Haines) I couldn't do much. Then I went home and
read homilies, in preparation for Walpack.
July 19. Early in the morning, I went from "Sideburn" (Br.
Burnside's little cabin in Dansbury,) to Walpack. (Walpack is an
Indian word signifying "a good fat land.") On the way I
reflected on the Trinity, that they might make me capable as a
herald of the Gospel. It was very impressive for me that the
Atonement had been for such poor sinners. I visited the smith,
William McNab, but I could talk to him only about the harvest.
Afterwards I visited at McDowell's and Susanna Ray's, and after
some discourse on external matters, I could easily say something
about the rest and peace in Jesus. Most of the way today was
occupied with the Saviour only, and my marriage, and the Brethren
who had moistened this route with their sweat and sown it with
prayer.....I went to my lodging a mile away, after I announced
the preaching service at Pawlin's Kill, through a traveler at
the ferry. I swept out the church and sleeping place, and was very
happy in contemplation. The eldest son,-Abraham of Benjamin Smith's
brother, John, from Virginia, came to me. He is 23 years old, and
lives at Shannadoe, (Shenandoah, Va.) in the Irish settlement. His
father is captain of the militia there. They have never seen one of
the Brethren, but have heard many bad reports about them. He will
return in a week or two. It is far beyond the Potomac."
The above quote is from page 3 of the Moravian Missionary Diaries,
an unpublished MSS, written circa 1730 to 1750. I am responsible
for the underlining.
First, has been identified a William McNab as a smith, living in
Dansbury, Monroe County, Penn.
Second. This McDowell is quite likely to be either the person
himself or a relative of the Capt. MCDowell of Augusta County,
Virginia in whose company of militia, James McNabb, son of William
McNabb, served as a Cadet circa 1745. This information is contained
on a receipt for service rendered given to Wm. McNabb for his son and is a
matter of record in the Draper files.
Third. Abraham Smith's apparently permanent move from Dansbury to
Shenandoah valley is a clear indication of a social connection
between the two populated areas.
Fourth. Irish settlement. This term was used extensively to denote both
Scottish and Scots-Irish individuals and/or families.
Fifth. Additional references are made to Wm. McNab on pages 12,30,&
33 of the MSS. Said Moravian Missionary MSS is available from the
Monroe County Historical Association, 900 Main St., Stroudsburg,
PA 18360--phone 717/421 7703, with some charge for making the some
100 plus pages of the entire MSS.
3.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_036.txt
We know there were two William McNabbs in 1755. One of them in
Augusta County, Virginia and the other, probably his father, in
the Lower Smithfield Township, Monroe County, Penn. as shown on
A List of Inhabitants Lower Smithfield Township 1750-1755. Also
on this List is Gideon van Aken, whom, I believe, is the father
of Betty Aiken, the first wife of the William McNabb of Augusta
County, Virginia and who should be designated as Junior. The
following three pages contain a list of these inhabitants.
I have included one page from The Indian Forts of the Blue Mountains,
which shows that William McNab, Senior, was still living in the
area in 1758.
Now What?? It seems to me that there is a possibility that James
Micknab (McNabb) of Boston was the father of Wm. McNabb, Senior,
who was the father of Wm. McNabb, Junior; he of the 1749 Augusta Co.,
Virginia grant of land; however, a great deal of research needs to
be done to document the whole story to the extent that we really
know without speculation, the exact history. Perhaps some clan
researcher will proceed with such a project. If so, not only is
there more to be learned from the files of the Monroe County
Historical Association but just across the Delaware River from
Stroudsburg (the new name for Dansbury) is Sussex County, New
Jersey. Their Historical Society is addressed at Box 913, Newton,
NJ 07860.
At one time here in Texas, there was an attractive brunette who, on TV,
in an ad for Western Oilwell Service Company, said "If you don't
have an oil well, then get one. You will love doing business with
Western." Thus if you do not care for my theory of McNabb lineage,
and, its admittedly sparse documentation, then produce a better one.
I will be the first to offer my congratulations. Walter Craig Davidson.
+
4
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_037.txt
MCNABB Information
Old Dansbury
(now Stroudsburg, Penna.)
and
The Moravian Mission
by
RALF RIDGWAY HILLMAN
An address before the Monroe County Historical Society,
Stroudsburg, Penna., May 17, 1932, before the Moravian
Historical Society, Nazareth, Penna., October 20, 1932,
and before the Wyoming Historical & Ceological Society,
Wilkes-Barre, Penna., January 20, 1933.
537 Ann St
Shondsbury, Penn
18360
717/4.21
7703
PRINTED 1934
KENWORTHY PRINTING CO., INC.
BUFFALO, NEW YORK
5
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_038.txt
A LIST OF INHABITANTS
LOWER SMITHFIELD TOWNSHIP
1750-1755
(As recorded in petitions, reports, warrants, surveys, patents, etc.
These were not all recorded as land-owners, and some
may have been employed by others.)
Dansbury
Allison, Robert
Baker, John
Barber, Jonathan
Barber, Joseph
Brewster, David
Brodhead, Daniel
Clark, William
Countryman, Henry
Countryman, William
Culver, Ephraim
Drake, John
Gaber, Daniel
Gaber, Henry
Goodrich, Samuel
Haines, Joseph
Hartman, Abraham
Hillman, James
Shoemaker, Jochem
Shouer, Michael
Wheeler, Joseph
Williamson, John
Delaware Valley
Fish, John
Gunsolus, Manuel
Hannah, Robert
Hyndshaw, James
Jayne, William, Sr.
Jayne, William, Jr.
Longshore, Robert
Sawin, Joseph
Scely, Joseph
Van Etten, John
Shawnce
DeLong, Francis
Dupuis, Aaron
Hillman, John
Halley, Edward
Johnson, Elisha
Jones, Francis
McMichael, John
Dupuis, Samuel
Freeland, Enoch
McNab, William
Miner, Jacob
Parker, Joshua
(Bethlehem)
Parks, Robert
Jennings, Solomon
Pierce, John
Reser, Denis
Roe (Rowe), Matthew
Wind Gap
Salade, George
Garlinghouse, James
Shoemaker, Daniel
Shoemaker, Garret
Garlinghouse, J. G.
Levers, Robert
This could be the ss
father of
Wm dna Hill
who was in Augustor Co. VA
1749, with his
severe sons.
+ 1 dan.
The Wi'm shown in
+ well known Thunght the men.
Donchery
was c.
blackamith,
6.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_039.txt
Steward Mackee
Francis M'Gee
Neil Maginly
John Cornelius
James McConcl
John Hide
John Gavens
Gideon van Aken
James van Bunschoten
Patrick Nixon
Richard Pigot
William Battey
William Wright
Conngrine
James Molen
Thomas Quick*
Benjamin Cortright
Jeremiah Kittle
Benony Heath
Together with a runaway servant. Charles McLean.
NOTE-This name scratched off. Killed by Indians in February, 1756.
McLean's name was also scratched off,lor ob
reasons.
A number of the above names were well-known in Lower
Smithfield Township, in the vicinity of
present Shawnee.
It would seem from a study of the list that Captain Van
Etten recruited his company from the entire section known
as: The Forks of the Delaware."
Could this he a relative
y
Betty Bitten, 1st wife of
Wm
Probably
7c7b6?
her father
68.
68
7. ☐
༩༠༢༠༩
•
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_040.txt
290
THE INDIAN FORTS
the farmers in gathering their harvests, with his limited force
During the month of July, until its abrupt termination o
July 21st, we find numerous entries in his journal of detach
ments sent to guard the harvesters. The available soldiers
however, were certainly too few for the duties required f
them, and we can readily understand the appeal for more aid
During the Conference with the Indians at Easton in July,
1757, when a treacherous attack on the Governor was feared,
Col. Weiser sent in haste to Fort Hamilton and Fort Norris
for a detachment of troops to augment the town guard. This
also tended to weaken, temporarily, the force at the former
point.
After this the inroads of the Indians became less frequent
Continuous efforts were made to bring about peace with the
various tribes, and the Delawares especially were generally
won over to the British side. As a consequence it was prac
tically determined to virtually abandon the Forts at the Mini-
sink region, and, in the Spring of 1758, Lieut. Hyndshaw, then
in command of Fort Hamilton, was ordered south of the moun-
tains to Teed's Block House near Wind Gap. Hearing of this
contemplated action the settlers sent the following petition to
Gov. Denny:
"The Petition of the Distressed Inhabitants of Lower Smith-
field Township, in the County of Northampton, most Humbly
Sheweth:
That your Honours petitioners are under some apprehen-
sions that the Company of Soldiers, Commanded by Janies
Hyndshaw, are to be removed from their present Station. and
of our being left in a Defenceless posture; That your Petition
ers have had Intelligence of a Body of upwards of Three
Hundred French and Indians that are coming Down to Dis-
tress the Frontiers of this province, and as this part at present
seems the most Defenceless. it is very probable that we shall
be the first attacked; That your petitioners have at present
but 12 men allowed by the province, which we Humbly appre
bend Can afford us but little assistance; and further, we Hum-
bly Conceive that in case we were attacked by so large a party
we must inevitably fall an easy prey to our Cruel Savage
Enemy, unless your Honour is pleased to afford us a Reinforce
OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.
297
which we flatter ourselves we are assured of, your Hor
Having Hitherto since your Succession to this province,
dised a very Fatherly Care over us, for which we return
Most Hearty thanks; and further. we being well assured
next to Divine Providence your Honour is our protector.
Submit our Circumstances to your Superior Knowledge
for us, who as Loyall Subjects are Determined with
Honour's assistance to stand against any Enemy that
attempt to invade us. and your Honour's petitioners as in
Bound Shall ever pray."
OD Dupui,
McMichael,
Sel Shoemaker,
Aliam Clark,
inel Dupui,
Hamel Broadhead,
Praham Mullux,
polas Miekle,
mard Weeser,
Can Cambden,
Frederick Vanderliss.
umes Hilman,
ohn Hilman,
William Smith,
ohn McDoull,
William McNab.
Edward Connor.
Robert Hanah,
Daniel McIntosh.
Michael Shouer,
John Williamson,
James Garlinghousing.
John Higgins.
Isaac Flack,
Enoch Freeland.
John Drake,
Jeremiah Flemmer.
Adam Snall,
Francis Delong.
(Penn. Arch.. iii. p. 357.)
These alarms were unfortunately based on something more
than mere rumor. The Mohawk Indians were still inclined
Dide with the French and in June. 1758, had formed quite a
party to attack the Minisink settlement. Teedyuscung and the
Delawares endeavored to persuade them from their purpose,
ucceeding, however, only in part. Some of the enemy ad-
hered to their purpose, and committed depredations above the
cinity of Fort Hamilton, which then seems to have been
without a garrison. To the credit of the settlers it must be
aid that from the very outbreak of hostilities in 1755 ther
howed a determination to defend themselves and not give
way to the Indians, perhaps more so than at most other locali.
ties. and this too notwithstanding the fact that the protec
19°
8.
☑
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_041.txt
This chart shows the Davidson/ McNabb/ McNeill/ Buckner/
Weddle! Cloud/ Lane (Layne)/ McCubbin/Taylor familes and their
relationships from 1500 to 1992-
Isaac Taylor, Sr. married Isabella Willson Sister of Colonel John
Wilson (Wilson). Isaac Taylor's son, Andrew Taylor, Sr., mamed
Col John Willson's daughter, Elizabeth, who was Andrew's
mother's neice.
Wm. McNabb. Sr.
ச
Bartist McNabb
son
8. 1723
son
1740's B. 1702
mist
Betty Aiken
m
Catherine 7
From Scod and
Isaac Taylor, Sr.
From County Ainm
Ireland. 1740's
B. ca. 1700
Isabella Wilson
son
Andrew Taylor. Sr.
B. ca 1733
David McNabb St.
B. 1755
1st
Eizabeth Wilson
Exzabeth Taylor
Sir John
McCubbin
of Scand
B. ca 1600
Richard Lane
Wm. McCubbin,
John McCubbin
son The Calans in
John McCubbin II
St.
Wm. McCubbin, Jr.
son B. ca. 1666
B. 1704
son 8. ca. 1730
1652. B. cu 1630
m
M.
Deborah Howard
Ann (Howard)?
Nate Griffith
Eleanor Conley
Major
(Layne)
of Engand
B. ca 1600
m7
Samuel Lane. Sr.
son Caarsal Crown Oter
by 1050 B. 1628
wigow Margaret
Mauldin Burrage
son
Dutton Lane
B. ca. 1675
son
Richard Lane, St.
6.1700
Prebosa
(Presba) Tydings
Mary Sarah Fuller
DAVIDSON
"WISELY IF SINCERELY"
Joseph Davidson
6. 1808
1826
Eizabeth (Brock)
Francis Manon
Davidson
B. 1838
1859
Margaret
Cynthia Morgan
son
James Isaac
Davidson
B. 1866
1888
Lou Ola Smith
SURCHINUS
по
BUCKNER
"LET FAITH ARISE WITH HOPE"
ARMS: Sable, three fleurs de lis or.
CREST: A fluer de lis gules, an adder
entwined around it issuing from
the centre leaf ppr.
Andrew Davison
Dawason
B. a.
son
1765
7
Thomas Cloud
Wm. Cloud
Wm. Cloud II
Wm. Cloud III
Joseph Cloud
m.
B. 1575-Cane,
Jane Nychcias
B. 1602
son Emigrated from
son
Emigrated from
son
B.ca. 1680
Wiltshire,
Isaac Cloud
son B. c. 1710
John Fuller Lane
B. 1727
Zachariah
McCubbin
B.1752
B. 1621 England in
B. seer England in
England
m.
Joane
1682
m 1648
1682
m
m
Susan James
Grace Wills
Ruth Jarvis
Exzabeth Cloud
Sarah Lane
Bender McCubbin
vchard Buckner
William Buckner
3. 1487 in Eng.
0.1548
1527 in Eng
Hugh Buckner
son B. 1557 in Eng.
Thomas Buckner
D. 1558
son B. 1590 in Eng
D. 1645
m
Martha
John' Buckner
son 8.1831 in Eng.
D. 1695 In VA
10 July 1661
Deborah Ferrers
13 GENERATIONS, Father to Son, of the England, Virginia and North Carolina Buckner Family
son B. 1678
D. 1731
Nathaniel Taylor
McNabo
B.1783
James Pinckney
McNabb
son B. 1814
13 Nov 1836
Easter Fienniken
DeArmand
san
Isle of Tyree (1825)
William McNeil
B. ca. 1780
28Jul1792
Christy Cameron
Hugh McNeill
son B. 1803- from
Scotland
Sophia Boye
m.3 Oct. 1797
Parsey Taylor
James A. Buckner
Son B.6 Oct 1805
25 Sept. 1832
Susannah Roberts
sor:
Nathaniel
Armstrong McNabb
B. 1848
120CT872
Rebecca Ann
Tumer
Daniel Sylvester
McNeill
B. 1848 in NB.
Canada
m5SEPIB69
Sarah E. McPanand
Stephen M.
Buckner
B. 1847
m. 13 Feb. 1870
Lousa Jane
Kuykendall
Walter Scott
McNabb
son B. 1875
15 DIC 1896
Birbe Sophia
McNeill
Emmett F. Buckner
son B. 1875
13 Feb. 1898
Susan Cordelia
Martin
Solomon Johnson
Davidson
B. 1893
14 JUNE
Vioia Crang 1917
McNabb
Eugene Buckner
B. 1901
m. 1 Aug. 1920
Vrania Ba
Weade
day.
Walter Craig
Davidson
B. 1920
IMAR1945
Dans Louise
Buckner
Willam Craig
Davidson
son B. 1947
m-1st-Mary Louise
Anderson
2nd Ezabeth Main
Tyler Craig
Davidson
son a. 1966
dau
Tara Louise
Davidson
B. 1973
M. MAY 1994
Steven Hazel
Darienne Tayler Nicole Hazel
b. May 1995, Ft. Collins, Co.,
LAUREN born 17 JUNES
7+
Collins
Richard Buckner
John Buckner
B. 1705
John' Buckner
John' Buckner
son
B. 1737-44
Son
B. 1765-1770
Eizabeth Cooke
m. 1735
Sarah Buckner
Mary Brown
There is evidence that Wm. McNabb came to Augusta County,
Virginia from Old Dansbury (Now Stroudsburg) Monroe County,
Penn. where an older Wm. McNabb lived in the early 1700's.
Also in the same area of Monroe Co., Penn, lived Gideon
Van Aiken and where Cornelius Van Aiken and seventeen other
family members were killed by Indians in the 1750's. Either
of these could have been the father of Betty Aiken.
Andrew J. Weddle
B. 1830
son
James Alexander
Weddle
B. 1854
Walter Davis
Weddie
son B. 1878
555
Wyninda?
Emaline
Mabida Boyd
Lucy Towe
Researcher
Walter Craig Davidson
1309 E. Brown St.
Llano, Texas 78643-2405
Phone: 915-247-3617
526A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_042.txt
AND'S
Born
statened
HAMI WILLIAM MCNABE I
1702
Where Glendochart, Scotland
co Died
1789
to Buried
Where
Where
Wautauga County, Tenn. (Now North Carolina)
Where
en Married
(1) () .
1 Fatherbally Wm66 Senior of
Monria Co. Penn.
Where
(2) Widow Martha Bennett,
March 19,1750 Augusta
County, Virginia
His Mother's Maiden Name
Island Road
DATA CETAINED FROM: McNabb.
Burial Ground on
Dochart & Loch Tay.
Brothers: John, Patt, Andrew,
Samuel & possibly others.
1. Bophate
McNabb Burial Ground is located
where The River Dochart enters
Loch Tay some 35 miles, 53K, west
of Perth, Scotland.
is not a
Scottish nome
bat
French on.
2.
Li'm. I sisms not to
hose him required to
526B
MAIDIN NAMI
(1) Betty Aiken
En Born
Fistered
en Died
Where Glendochart, Scotland
en Buried
thens (on
ber (1) (*) 16.
Where
Where
Where
* Farbe: Probably Didion van Aken of Wind GRP momoi co. Peny.
CHILDREN
Her Mother's Maiden Name
INT in order of bird)
1
1 Baptist
1
2
John
1
Samuel
Betty
+
1 James.
5
6
David
William
Andrew
9
10
11
1
Scotland'
Date
gine an eath of importation
✓
there is no
sistence of it prin to his offering hand in Auguste
Compller D. T. Brennan
Address
City_
WHEN BORN
5
Hay
Year Tor PLICE
Covery
Sule of
Canity
WHEN DED
DIT 434
Your
1723 Perthshire
Scotland
4 Jan 1784
To Kathren
Rockbridge, Va.
24 July 1809
Home
Date CA 1754
Date
To(1) Mary M. (2) Sarah Jamison
Date
To Isabella
Date.
To
Date
То
Date
Probably Baptist Mc
ans - shown in enor as
Children
To
거
ώτης της Κ Ι.
Date
To
Date
Probably brother.
7
I'm Mc Habb, I
То
Date
To..
Date
To
Dale
To.
Co. VA, ca 1749,
3
There is mentions of
an
f
Aiken family - 100 miles
ben do chart. Who come
Died in Washington County, NC/TENN from?
It is likely that
<
Wm, McNabb I did
not come to America from
Scotland but was
chenly here
+ moved to August Co. VA
from
some
place else in the
Americas. It is difficily to
imagine a widower coming to
America with 4 or 5 small chilton,
(See next page)
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_043.txt
096-5
as
The account of Wm. McNabb I living, marrying and moving from Glendochart,
Scotland to Virginia ca. 1740's has never seemed valid to me, WCD. If he had
left the children and emmigrated alone, it would have made more sense,
he could have always sent for them or gone back after them. But to take off
to the Colonies with five children ranging in ages from 5 or 6 to 12 or 13
just never seemed to me to be what a prudent Scot would do; especially just
after the death of his wife, Betty Aiken McNabb. I have evidence that there
is more than a possibility that Wm. McNabb I, he of the 1749 land deed in
Augusta Co. Va. came from Dansbury (Now Stroudsburg) Monroe Co. Penn, where
his father Wm. McNabb, Senior, was a blacksmith ca. 1720's. Also in the Lower
Smithfield Township of Dansbury, Delaware Valley, Shawnee, (Bethlehem), and
Wind Gap was Gideon van Aken, who lived in Wind Gap and was probably the
father of the first wife of Wm. McNabb I, Betty Aiken.
Possibly the McNabbs of Dansbury, Penn. (Now Stroudsburg) descend from
James Micknab (McNabb) who sailed from Downes, England, December 8,1651,
aboard the "John & Sarah"--Master John Greene--and landed in Boston, Mass.
before 24 February 1652. James went to work for the Lynn Iron Works. (Note:
70 years later Wm. McNabb in Monroe Co. Penn. was a blacksmith.)
Walk Graig Davidem
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
1309 E. BROWN ST.
LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
915/247-3617
1996
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_044.txt
117/421
MNABB Information
Old Dansbury
(now Stroudsburg, Penna.)
and
The Moravian Mission
by
RALF RIDGWAY HILLMAN
An address before the Monroe County Historical Society,
Stroudsburg, Penna., May 17, 1932, before the Moravian
Historical Society, Nazareth, Penna., October 20, 1932,
and before the Wyoming Historical & Geological Society,
Wilkes-Barre, Penna., January 20, 1933.
537: Ann St
Stroudsburg, Penn
18360
7703
PRINTED 1934
KENWORTHY PRINTING CO., INC.
BUFFALO, NEW YORK
526D.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_045.txt
A LIST OF INHABITANTS
LOWER SMITHFIELD TOWNSHIP
1750 1755
(As recorded in petitions, reports, warrants, surveys, patents, etc.
These were not all recorded as land owners, and some
Dansbury
may have been employed by others.)
Allison, Robert
Baker, John
Barber, Jonathan
Barber, Joseph
Brewster, David
Brodhead, Daniel
Clark, William
Countryman, Henry
Countryman, William
Culver, Ephraim
Drake, John
Gaber, Daniel
Gaber, Henry
Goodrich, Samuel
Haines, Joseph
Hartman, Abraham
Hillman, James
Shoemaker, Jochem
Shouer, Michael
Wheeler, Joseph
Williamson, John
Delaware Valley
Fish, John
Gunsolus, Manuel
Hannah, Robert
Hyndshaw, James
Jayne, William, Sr.
Jayne, William, Jr.
Longshore, Robert
Sawin, Joseph
Seely, Joseph
Van Etten, John
Shawnce
DeLong, Francis
Dupuis, Aaron
Hillman, John
Halley, Edward
Johnson, Elisha
Jones, Francis
Dupuis, Samuel
McMichael, John
Freeland, Enoch
McNab, William
Miner, Jacob
Parker, Joshua
(Bethlehem)
Parks, Robert
Jennings, Solomon
Pierce, John
Reser, Denis
Roe (Rowe), Matthew
Wind Gap
Salade, George
Shoemaker, Daniel
Shoemaker, Garret
This could be the ss
who was in Augusta Co. VA
Garlinghouse, James
Garlinghouse, J. G.
Levers, Robert
father of
Wm mHell
1749, with his
several sons.
+ I dan.
The Wi'm shown in
Donching
was
c.
Mackamith
+ well known Thungher th
526E
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_046.txt
Steward Mackee
Francis M'Gee
Neil Maginly
John Cornelius
James McConcl
John Hide
James van Bunschoten
Patrick Nixon
Richard Pigot
William Battey
William Wright
Conngrine
John Gavens
James Molen
Gideon van Aken
Thomas Quick
Benjamin Cortright
Jeremiah Kittle
Benony Heath
Together with a runaway servant. Charles McLean.
*NOTE*This name scratched off. Killed Indians in February, 1756.
McLean's name was also scratched off,tor
reasons.
'A number of the above names were well-known in Lower
Smithfield Township, in the vicinity of present Shawnee.
It would seen from a study of the list that Captain Van
Etten recruited his company from the entire section known
as: The Forks of the Delaware."
Could this he a relative.
q
Betty Hillen, 1st wife of
Wm in cobb?
68
526 F
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_047.txt
240
THE INDIAN FORTS
the farmers in gathering meir marvests, with his limited force
During the month of July, until its abrup: termination
July 21st, we find numerous entries in his journal of detach
ments sent to guard the harvesters. The available soldiers
however, were certainly too few for the duties required of
them, and we can readily understand the appeal for more aid
During the Conference with the Indians at Easton in July,
1757, when a treacherous attack on the Governor was feared,
Col. Weiser sent in haste to Fort Hamilton and Fort Norris
for a detachment of troops to augment the town guard. This
also tended to weaker, temporarily, the force at the former
point.
After this the inroads of the Indians became less frequent
Continuous efforts were made to bring about peace with the
various tribes, and the Delawares especially were generally
won over to the British side. As a consequence it was prac
tically determined to virtually abandon the Forts at the Mini-
sink region, and, in the Spring of 1758, Lieut. Hyndshaw, then
in command of Fort Hamilton, was ordered south of the moun-
tains to Teed's Block House near Wind Gap. Hearing of this
contemplated action the settlers sent the following petition to
Gov. Denny:
"The Petition of the Distressed Inhabitants of Lower Smith-
field Township, in the County of Northampton, most Humbly
Sheweth:
That your Honours petitioners are under some appreben-
sions that the Company of Soldiers, Commanded by Janies
Hyndshaw, are to be removed from their present Station, and
of our being left in a Defenceless posture; That your Petition.
ers have had Intelligence of a Body of upwards of Three
Hundred French and Indians that are coming Down to Dis-
tress the Frontiers of this province, and as this part at present
seems the most Defenceless, it is very probable that we shall
be the first attacked; That your petitioners have at present
but 12 men allowed by the province, which we Humbly appre
hend Can afford us but little assistance; and further, we Hum.
bly Conceive that in case we were attacked by so large a party
we must inevitably fall an easy prey to our Cruel Savage
Enemy, unless your Honour is pleased to afford us a Reinforce
OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.
297
which we flatter ourselves we are assured of, your Hor
Having Hitherto since your Succession to this province,
dised a very Fatherly Care over us, for which we return
Most Hearty thanks; and further, we being well assured
✓ next to Divine Providence your Honour is our protector.
Submit our Circumstances to your Superior Knowledge
✓ for us, who as Loyall Subjects are Determined with
Honour's assistance to stand against any Enemy that
attempt to invade us. and your Honour's petitioners as in
Bound Shall ever pray."
OD Dupui,
McMichael,
el Shoemaker,
liam Clark,
mnel Dupui,
Amel Broadhead,
Abraham Mullux.
olas Miekle,
Sonard Weeser,
Cambden,
rederick Vanderliss.
mes Hilman,
ohn Hilman,
William Smith,
ohn McDoull,
William McNab.
Edward Connor.
Robert Hanah,
Daniel McIntosh.
Michael Shouer,
John Williamson,
James Garlinghousing.
John Higgins.
Isaac Flack,
Enoch Freeland.
John Drake.
Jeremiah Flemmer.
Adam Snall,
Francis Delong.
(Penn. Arch.. iii. p. 357.)
These alarms were unfortunately based on something more
than mere rumor. The Mohawk Indians were still inclined
O side with the French and in June, 1758, had formed quite a
party to attack the Minisink settlement. Teedyuscung and the
Delawares endeavored to persuade them from their purpose,
ucceeding, however, only in part. Some of the enemy ad-
hered to their purpose, and committed depredations above the
cinity of Fort Hamilton, which then seems to have been
Without a garrison. To the credit of the settlers it must be
said that from the very outbreak of hostilities in 1755 they
showed a determination to defend themselves and not give
✓ way to the Indians, perhaps more so than at most other locali-
ties, and this too notwithstanding the fact that the protec
19°
5262
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_048.txt
The Dansbury Diaries by some Moravian ſhivernany
July 18.
The text of yesterday impelled at to visit
several homes, and it comforted Mo. At Francis Jones'
it was notable for me to hear that his youngest daughter,
who is six weeks old, before Br. Pyrlacus baptized her,
had always been restless and cranky, afterwards would
always lie cheerfully and quietly by herself. For Joh
kchichaul's house I wished peace and blessings, and the
footsteps of the Brethren Hartin Hack and others, who
had formerly been there, refreshed me. At John Hillman'
I felt good also. Here a bridge has been built for Br.
Joseph's sake, when they heard that he was coming. At
Joseph Hayn's I couldn't do much. Then I went home and
read homilles, in preparation for alpack.
S
July 19. Early in the morning I wont from "Sideburn"
( Br. Burnside's little cabin in Dansbury,) to halpack.
(Halpack 16 an Indian word signifying " a good fat land")
On the way I reflected on the Trinity, that they might
Make no capable as a herald of the Gospel.
It was very
impressive for me that the Atonement had been for such
poor sinners. I visited the smith, illi holab, but 1
could talk to him only about the harvest. Afterwards
Ca. 1740a
Possibly
discourse on external matters, I could easily say something Caget.
about the rest and peace in Jesus. siout of the way today
was occupied with the Saviour only, and my marriage, and
the Brethren who had moistened this route with their sweat,
visited at McDowell's and Susanna Rey's, and after some relative
a
MCDOWELL
the
The 17505.
of
and sown it with prayer. Among then inzendorf, Benigan, Augusta Co.
and the poopie From Shekoneko. That gave E6 Coupeny • At Virginia in
last I came on the other side of the Delaware to Benjamin
Smith's, and because he was not at home, I resolved to
lodge in our school-house, arriving there at 5 P.A.
While at Smith's, his wife broke out in tears because of
the misery which she has folt since she met the happy
hearts, old and young, at the Synod in Bethlehem, this
having been her first visit there. I went to my lodging
a milo away, after I had announced the preaching bervice
131.
at Pawlin's kill, through a traveler at the Corry. import
-
-
It
Shaw's first wife had died hero. The 16tters and hint
versas I had read to Suzanina Ray. I swept out the church
and sleeping place, and was very happy in contemplation.
The oldest son, Abrahan, of Benjamin Smith's brother
John, from Virginia, came to me: . He is 23 years old, and
lives & Sharmadue, ( Shenandoah, ) in the Irish settlement.
His father is captain of the militia there. They have
never seen one of the Brethren, but have heard many ond
reports about them. He will return in a week or two.
is far beyond the Potomac. A clear indication of some connection
with the settlements in the Shenandoah VALLEY of Virginia,
July 20. A part of the morning I spent alone in the school-
house. Afterwards I remained with icholas Schoonoven who
has now been ill for 18 weeks, and who first received Br.
Mack as a guest five years ago, and afterwards Christian
Rauch, and who also had heard a few words from Br. Ludwig
(Zinzendorf) through an interpreter. ie told me that he
had many pains of the flesh, but that it was well with his
soul. He wished me to write a bill, but I thought of the
words of the Saviour in the text of the Congregation for
the 22nd of this month, "14.0 made me a Jadge or a divider
526H
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_049.txt
baptized, came to me, and one sees something bright in
children who have been baptized by the Brethren. I went
further, and the lines of a hymn occurred to me, "However
little one can do, one does that little gladly.' At c
Schoonover's I heard that he had indeed visited Benjamin
Smith, but there was much self-righteousnessthere.
I left
it to the Saviour that He might make it clear to me whether
I should conduct a meeting there.
-
Sept. 28. It seemed to me right that I should conduct a
meeting in Schoonover's house, and I had much grace and a
blessed feeling in my heart in connection with the discourse
on I John 3:23-24, which text harmonized with the daily
word. On my return journey I stopped at Hellab's, and came
to speak of David's penitential struggle. He himself has
been given to drink.) The sick youth, John Roberts cane
into my mind while on the way and when I came to Halley's
I learned that he had died. The last time I was there he
had said, "Home have mercy," and after that he had been
speechless for several days.
-
Sept. 29. I conducted a meeting in Burnside's house on
Psalm 38, with New Testament grace, and afterward went to
Hillman's, where I always feel comfortable, and afterward
to Nazareth, about 8 P. and in the warmth of my heart
and blood, I would gladly have gone on to Bethlehen if
Br. Franck had not stopped me. I attended the 11turgical
service and rested.
Sept. 30. Early at three o'clock I started, and on the way
I sang
"I can not possibly leave off,
I have not Thee embraced enough."
At which time the dream occurred to me which I had on
Ascension Day in 1747, viz.- that the Saviour and Br. Johan-
nes were together and I embraced my dear Lamb as I would a
man, and then He talked with Johannes about me. At last
early today I had a chance to see and kiss my dear heart
Johannes, and am rejoicing in grace and expect still more
blessing.
Oct. 1. After I had yesterday had the opportunity to see
my dear Johannes, and had been refreshed in the Congregation
atmosphere at Bethlehem, I started today in good spirits
from there, and with the blessing of the Congregation arri-
ved in the evening at Dansbury with Garritt Broadhead.
Hillmans and others were glad to see me so soon again.
word of the Saviour was Matt. 4 14. My heart was of-
ten with the dear missionaries at Gnadanhuetten.
-
The
Oct. 2. When I went early to the creek to fetch water, 1
received a blessed kiss on my heart, and I thanked the
Hounds of Jesus and wished to all pilgrims, and the whole
people of God, ( and especially my wife,) salvation.
1 re-
mained at home for the day, because a couple of friends had
said they wished to visit me. ily heart was often illumina-
ted, and my office ( that I am here, and not. In my conto (7),
but in the name of the Saviour, together with the Congrera-
12.
576i
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_050.txt
because these New England men make so much of intellec-
tual understanding. I ended the day with the discourse
of Brother L. ( Zinzendorf) on the bride and the wedding
guests, and I had hearty fellowship with the Bridegroom
concerning myself and the people here.
December 19. After I had spent the forenoon, partly, in
reading the London discourses, and partly commanding with
the Saviour concerning my heerers, these came to the meet-
ing, which was very much blessed.
"
We Bang The Christian,
he who feels that Christ has dlod, etc." and after that
I spoke on John 1: 12,16,17. Our feelings were in ac-
cordance with the message. Afterward I made up my mind
to go with Francis Jones to Samuel Dubul, where the sister-
in-law of Francis lies sick unto death" Formerly I hate
often wondered how I might find entrance to this house.
Brother L. and his company had lodged there for the ht
while the father Nicolas Dupul dwelt there. How I found
the opportunity for this sick visit in the company of Fran-
cls, and the Saviour granted me abundant grace to testily
concerning His wounds. The faces of some of those present
were changed, and Saumel gave heed to that which was said.
A negro was present, who was 111. To him I spoke of the
blessing of the Cross. The sister-in-law of Francis Jones
was very anxious to hour. Several strangers were present.
I found there also a certain Mcilab, - one of those who at
tend the services of our brethren. He happened to be
drunk, for Samuel is a tavern-keeper. I had no other don
concerning this house than that it is full of evil spirits.
During this hour, however, they were bound. Then we visit-
ed the widow of Moses Dupui, and I told the orphans how the
Saviour Himself would be their father. The widow said thi: L
I had been the last with whom her husband had spoken, and
that from that hour he had wished to hear nothing further
of this world, but had continued lying quietly for the re-
maining seven days. When some one begged him to tako a
will, he answered that he would leave to the world that
which belonged to it, since he had now something better.
[The little Dominie Fryemith has been there, but had not
said anything good to them. For that reason they gave head
to what I said.) In the evening I stopped at John Baker's,
whose son, John Wheeler, is recovering, and is minded to
belong to the Saviour. At Brodhead's we had edifying dis-
course concerning salvation through the blood of Jesus
alone, and his wife again expressed herself clearly and
nicely, after maintaining a long silence. In the evening
་
I wrote to Bethlehem about the baptism of two children.
December 20. I was up early, in order that I might go to
Paulins Creek. After I had stopped in at Halley's, Brod-
head's and Baker's, I visited Aaron Dupui, who is ill.
received me in a friendly manner, and I sought to direct
him to the meaning of the wounds of Jesus, unknown to him.
As I was leaving, it occurred to me to pray that he night
know himself to be a poor sitner. At Just 1 came to the
Gap of the Blue Mountains, on the bank of the Delaware,
and had, at first, the footsteps of my dorost Brethren
Johannes, Friedrich, and Nathaniel in affectionate renom-
30.
526J
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_051.txt
strengthening for me today. In the person of a Hew ingland
man's (Phillips) little child, that was obliged to travel
from Dansbury back to the North River, I had the Child Jesus
before me, as He was obliged to make a pilgrimage while still
in swaddling clothes.
December 26. In Benjanin Smith's house I felt that I could
read aloud the London discourse on Saving Faith. And wheti
I came to the house of lionricus Schoonhofer and his brother
Niclas and others arrived there also, I was encouraged to
conduct a meeting, using as a text. Heb. : 14-18. How the
Delaware had risen dangerously, and many tree trunks Poul-
ed down the strong current. Yet I risked crossing In Thome
Brink's canos, and cane safely to the house of Gortrecht.
There the Bushkill was so high that I could go no furthere
'On the way I had planned & meeting, and the word ( Glory to
God in the highest I Peace on Earth, Good-will toward men,)
was in my mind. Accordingly I conducted a service for the
families there, who had heard Brother Shaw. Some others
were present, - as Johanien Kasselman, from Schochery,
(Schoharie) and a New England ran, a peddler, and an old
Tachicasa, who understood & 11ttle English. Gortrecht's
little son, four years of age, named Flight, 1stened atten-
tively to what I told him concerning the Lamb of God.
others were friendly.
The
'
December 27. Rudolphus Schoonhover came early with horses
and helped me across the Bushkill." In his hottie 1 beght to
sing "Would you be well all over, etc.", and spoke about
this matter. Afterwards I talked with the youth Rieles
Brinck. I went on and stopped at the home of Isaac Jack,
(This name should be Tack,
F. R. H.)
opposed to us ; then i called at the house of Susana hay's
who is generally
neighbor, a High German named Schmidt, From Reuwied on the
Rhine, whose wife is ill. At the home of the smith Reliab,
whom I had met in liquor on the 19th of this month, round
an open ear, and I could tell him that it was not necessary
that he should be such a slave, if he would love and accept
the Saviour. Afterward I reflected on the word of the Ba-
viour, concerning the preaching of the Gospel to every
creature. Then I was taken to the sick Joseph kheele),
where Schoomacher's people helped me across the creek.
this I was thankful to the Saviour, and this I arrived in
safety at Brodhead's. There I heard ritch concrming the
Brethren Reutz and Okely, and was glad that they had reached.
Bethlehem safely before this high flood.
For
December 28. This night I dreamed much about our dearest
Johannes, and it was pleasant when I awoke.
of his dearest Benigna (daughter of Zuzendorf and wire of
J. also Thought
de Watteville,) whose birthday two years ago had been for
us a notable pilgrim day, from the ship to Lewistown.
thanked the Saviour for her birth and 11e on earth, und
L
spent the day at Brodhead's house in singing, reading aloud,
conversation, and silent prayer, until evening, when the
creek had so far fallen that. I could cross on a tall horse.
I was happy to be in my little room again, where I could
commune with the gracious Larib and rest.
soul and the would of these people might be flooded self.h
I played that my
grace.
33.
526K
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_052.txt
Driebe Freight Station Site
537 Ann Street, Stroudsburg, PA 18360
(717) 424-1776
(Mailing Address)
COUNT
HISTORICAL
Stroud House Site and Library
900 Main Street, Stroudsburg, PA 18360
(717) 421-7703
EST. 1921
Monroe County Historical Association
Walter Craig Davidson
1309 E.
Brown Street
Llano, TX 78643-2405
August 25, 1992
Dear Mr. Davidson:
YOU
river,
I am sorry to report that I have found nothing further on
McNabb, and I cannot pin down your Betty Van Aken.
might try looking on the other side of
11 New Jersey.
the Delaware
Often times communities would in some way
span the river%3B there was constant crossing back an forth.
It your
Van Aken family was
We have to this date
reserach has indicated that
You asked in your Jelter
records on this area.
On that same note: The Van Auken or
very cominon here in this general area.
tound only your McNabb.
there is even the slightest chance you have a commection
with this man, there probably is.
it you might be able to find earlier
You may find some which are more complete in New Jersey,
since settlement there came earlier, but much before 1790,
and most record keeping anywhere in this part of the country
becomes poor.
an
At the end of this letter I have included the address of
association which might be able to help you in New Jersey.
Sincerely,
Robert J.
nes Researchei
Sussex County Historical
Society
Box 913
Newton NJ 07860
526 L
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_053.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME WILLIAM/MCNABB
1702
Where Glendochart, Scotland
Where
DATA OBTAINED FROM: McNabb
Burial Ground on Island Road
Dochart & Loch Tay.
Brothers: John, Patt, Andrew,
Wautauga County, Tenn. (Now North Carolina)
Samuel & possibly others.
When Born
Christened
When Died
1789
When Buried
When Married
Where
Other Wives (if any) (2) Widow Martha Bennett, March 19,
Number (1) (3) c.
His Father
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME (1) Betty Aiken
When Born
Christened
When Died
When Buried
Other Husb. (I any)
Number (1) (2) etc.
Her Father
CHILDREN
Female (Arrange in order of birth)
✗ M
M
1 Baptist
2 John
M
Samuel
3
F
Betty
$
M
5
James
M
David
6
M
William
7
M
Andrew
8
9
10
"1
12
13
Where
Where
1750.
Augusta County, Virginia
His Mother's Maiden Name
Where Glendochart, Scotland
Where
Where
Where
Her Mother's Maiden Name
Scotland
WHEN DIED
Day
"
McNabb Burial Ground is located
where The River Dochart enters
Loch Tay some 35 miles, 53K, west
of Perth, Scotland.
(I am not thoroughly convinced that Mr. Brennan is
correct in where William came from and when. First,
one cannot find an Oath of Importation in the records,
and it was impossible to own land without an Oath of
Importation or having lived in the country for some
time. Also there is no record that one can find, of
Wm McNabb and several small children having arrived
by ship from anywhere. Further, who ever heard of a
Date
Compiler D. T. Brennan
Address
City-
Month Year
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
State or
Country
1723 Perthshire
Scotland
4 Jan 1784
Probably children born after 1750
children from 2nd Marriage
Rockbridge, Va.
24 July 1809
Date
To Kathren
Date
Married
To(1) Mary M. (2) Sarah Jamison
Date
To Isabella
Date.
To
Date
Το
Date
То
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To..
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Scottish family in Scotland or
Ireland, naming a child "Baptist"?
Or as I believe it should be
Baptiste--surely he was born
where Wm, his father, was influence
influenced by the French
language.
Died in Washington County, NC/TENN
I believe that Wm McNabb was
born someplace in America, grew
up, married, had children his
wife died & he moved to Augusta
County, Virginia ca 1745,
the children.
with
526
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_054.txt
&
в
2
ง
ing
JNY Y
di
'ams
።
AUGUSTA.
539
all and ſingular, then the promiſes hereby granted and wlased.
Parhand Parishe theors of with their and every of their appurtenances weite
this said William Mr Centoch, hishers and assigns forever, tollis only
proper less and behoofoflume the said Williand Mitoch and of hi
hurs and assigns forever, and thomaid Williance Beverley for himself
bis heirs Exultors and Aom: dotte Covenant gromifsandgrant
found with the said William Milestock his heirs and assigns by thos
• profunts that listhes said William Beverley nouch the times
oheme of healing I
delivering of the fo persports is fuzed opened ford perfoch and undefoe, in
Etats of Inheritance in for pumple, & hand uitter spromisses hereby grade
purple,
and Released and that leslente y Dod power p law full and abfoluto authoriti
had
togrant, and conver
the same Inge William McClustock in Manus
& form a forsvaid And that the sad promisses noward and to forever
Zorsafter. Shale romain and befres and clear if and from all former-
and other gifts grants bargains Sales Dower right, and title of
Dower Judgments Expections Titles Troubles charges and Jaume-
branes whatsoever made cons committed on sulfiored by you won
Beverley or any other person or persons what foever [ the quetreats
herefter
horse fler to grois clue, and payable tour Loverſign Lord #toking his
Pension forenſin respoche
only
for piered] And Lastly that stand William Beverley and his hevis
all and singular the promise hereby granted and Roloased with it ove
Appurtenances, white to said Willie Briffentail and his huis from
all and every other Herson and persons whatsoever it all and will warrant
and forever defond by the ſe ſprouts weshers of theward with in
Beberley liste bursuits felt his hand Joel, yeah and your first above writin
Sealed & Delivered
willo prosomesof
The Hondor fou
The Rutledge
Bentley
Rob Rauchen Abahorch continued and held for Augusta County
the 28th day of Jobinary 1749.
COUNTY, Williain Beverly Eat in open fouth acknowledged the his Rolonhofen
Land indouſed to William Mi Clitoch which on his Motion is admitted to
VIRGINIA woord
Deep Book
2
p.539
542
27 Feb.1749
ORIGINAL
Chis
Josh
John Madison (2 (4)
Indenture
madi.
the Resists, leventh day of Hobruary Inths Year ofour Lord Onothers and devenbund i
and forty Nine Beiben. William Beverley Exf: of the Counts of Chaw of the
ons Back Andy William Mr Nabb of the County of Augustes of the other part
Conardore doing
Wine self that the said. William Beverly for and in
WM. BEVERLEY by the ward to stem Withalb at or before the Seling and delivery of theft fronto
the queue of five Shillings Current Money of Virginia, to hime in handpaid.
GRANT
FROM:..
WILLIAM MENABB
527 A
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_055.txt
540)
in
the Resigh whereof is hereby acknowledged Halle granted, bangnised
and, Sold, and by these prosents doth grant Bergenian Soll
unto the said, William Mr Nabb one fisis on periste of land
containing three hundred acres bittes fame more or less lying
and being in Beverley Mannor, in the said County, of Augustes
and bounded as followsette Beginning at two white oaks and
onshuesing Coiner to famuels Dohoney and rumith thou fouth
: Leventy light Degrass Weft thirty poles with his Lens to lic Commen
ablach ochio Adam thongsons Lin's themes with Said Lines -
-
dis Northe ons hundred and thirty poles to awhile oah and heory
Corner to folen Campbele, in the said. Thompsons Line, thomco with
Said Campbeles Line, duslaft too hundred and forte leglit poles
crofonga Sinals Run to two whiteoak Japlius Corner to
James Callisons Land the South two hundred and thirty poles
with Said Callisons and Alexander Mr Coaters Line's toas
white och inner to Mr foaters Land thened Weft includes c
fifty polos toaishite och and blachosh Corner to faid, Downey
Lated themes with his Lenis and Conra North twelve polis
to tras huiou's Well Seventy poles trawhite och North Menity
four yoles tothe beginning and all houses buildings Orchards
Way's Waters Watercourses profilo Commodities Houlditaments
and appurtenances whatsoever tottes said frismisses hereby granted
orami part thereof belonging or in any wife Appuntamiing
Andstlice Reversion and Reversion's Remander, and Remainers
Pents Hours and profits thersof Fohaveand to hold,
this and three hundred leous of Land and all and Singular,
other the promisses hereby granted with the appurtenanes
unto the said William Mhabt his Executors Adon and Apeign's -
from the day before the date hereof for and during the full teron &
time of onswhole years from thence next ensuing fully lobe complat
anderched throbe complete
and ended. Yielding and paying therefore the rent of one-
Capporboue ondady bay nigh if the same. Thall be lawfully у деталдед
To the Intent and purpose that by Virtus of thots projects and of the
Statute for trans fermy Usos into poſseoseen throad William McNabb
..may be in actual possession of the promise be thoroby enabled_
Haccess and takingray; and Release of we
and Releahr ohne and Inhon –
font i fis in our these & William
Beverley hatti tersuits set his hand
Sealed & delivered.
above written.
w
the profemroof
John Sin
Jolene Luin
!). Andras Mr. Clure
527 B
*-04 17
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_056.txt
';
1
Ah älgunch continend and hold for Augeffe counts the a
day of fobeuary 1749
William Beauty Eg fin oper Countach with gutter für Confefor hand underto
to William Mithrabs which on his Motion is amittis lacund
Yooh
John Stadivon, el he
Chis Indenture
made the twenty
Ciglih happo (Hobimary Juttis Year four Lord &notions and seven hundred and ſoiſ, we
Between William Biante En of the County of Essex, of the ons part and Witham
"M" Hall of thefounty of Augustes of the other part Wittressette that for.
and in Consideration of the sum of thins pounds Cuirt Money of Virginia
toller said, William Beverley in litud paud by the said William McNabb al.
mot din or before the fealing and delivers of tests profector the rooi h
ich whersof he
cloth hers by acknowledge and the roof doth reloops arguit and discharge the
said William Mi halb hls, Executors and administrators by thots projects He
ther and William Beverley Hath granted borga'sued Sild aliones rotossed and
confirmed and by the ots properts Dottgrand bargain Sell Alion Roloofs (
con form wits the fand William Mihrabb pin his listual, possession now being
by Vicbus of a bargane and ſale, to burnthor of Heads for onnohole Yard
Pridenture heardy date this day craph before the day.
and by four of this statuts for transferring love the Date of those prosents
cack
and his hevis for
Enspines offariste of fand con
"mining there hundred airey better sens
Auguſta, Dr bound ad as folebatte Begizoring the theme south seventy, light.
Morrorless lying and benique Beverley Mannors in the said County of
heory Corner to famuse Downey!
u
altos while laks and one-
Degrows Weft their ty poles with his Lins to his former a black shin 280.
Thompsons Lin's thened with faid Lines. Dus north onslundred and thirty, wit
toarch to pahand history corner to John Campbell-un faid Thompsons ine
thous with haid to a mobiles Lens dus aft colundred and forte Eight-
poles croſsing a small rure totus white oak saplins Cornerto James.
Callisons Land thours forthe two hundred and thirk, polis with said Callion.
and Alexander Hi featers Lint lawhite och corner to Mi fenters Land.
tumes Weft ons hundredſ
If fifty polos touwhile oak and Black och Come
to faid Doroneys Loved thous with leidene pind Corners North twelve jobs
totes hecorys Weft seventy pots to achite oad North Minit four jobs
tothe beginning and all houfer building. Orchiddrways Waters Water
courser profile Commodities Hereditaments and tenances whatfer
tottes said promisors hordby go duted or any feel thesesofbelonging or.
fire is and
Never mis
truſt
ان
590)
Title Interest Use Frucht (proportin Blaun and demand whatfower of be.
this and William Beverley of in and to this said promises And all Deeds
Cindernes and writings toraching or any will
fland and
all and fugular other the promises hereby granted and Rowap.
farts and farmaste this of with thesis and every of their appuite --
+ Millim te habs his hursand a fugis forever
Johave and toholds the said three hundred and tistams.
Sed every
527 C
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_057.txt
.
5453
བ་མ་སད་
tolles only porn levand behoof of leathered Witham : trabs and
of his loves and aſsignes forever and theroad William Beverly fortuin half
his hevis Excentot, add Coministrators cothe Covinaul promife and grant
to and with the aid William For had's his heges and assigns by theofreen
that thord William Beverly now at the demi of Paling and delivering &
of these prosents is seized of agond ſure ſurface and ſhed fingible
Estate of Inheritances in for simplic ofand the promisses houby
Place full &.
Tent and
Mi Nabb in Mannor and form aforesaid.
Toye William
nowies and ſo forever hersofter, Shell romain and before &
clears and from all former and other Gifts Grants barganis-
Lower Right and Titles of Dower Judgments Gecutions
Titles Troubles Charges and Jemmitrancis what
Catfarver madadone
incommitteden,
on ſuffered by the and William Apverling or muy other person
or facsons whatfowdery: the Quitigate heraffic grandner-
and payable loour Soversign Lord the King his here for apsors
uited and foce prized
formed in respects of you fromifies only exc
lishers alland.
lind Lapply that the said William Beverley and
Sosigular the promises hotby granted and released with their
Appurtenanted unto the raid Williamsii habbe his horis and Assigns
yanish live this said Williard Beverley and hishoves and all and
Every other (person of persons whatsoever Halland will warranty for
ever defond by those propouts forwitness where the sand botham
Beverly hate himounts Geh big hand & Leal the day and you.
forsh above written
on
ג.
Sea
Jolen Live!
A
John Lenn
Pihal of
Andrus Michlands Atchmark continued and wild for lengeſte
County the 29th Daryof Yobruary 1149
William Beverley Essſ in pauspurtiach mourlitzed this his Release,
for Land undented to tom vi halb which online Writion is armutid
Sound Josh John Madison (then)
Chi
Twenty Seventh
m
R
Indenture
made the
Terath day of Ashuary Jutes Year of our Lord notion and Sever
hundred and forth this Between William Beverley of Bland field
the Bouth of Essex, Eaf of the one parhand Thomas puris of the
6. Count of Augusta planter of the other parts Witnesseth that this -
said william for and in bondederation of the tune of five Shillings Current
before
Mioner of Way inia to him wichand paid by the said Thomas at or
5270
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_058.txt
OHIV
HIVER
MILLERE PURT
113.
Branch
HAMPSHIRE
1754
STAUNTON
SUMBERLAND
FORT ASHBY
R
PORT PEARSALL
173
PLEASANT
1736
ORT BUTT
FORT E
BEVERILY MANO
1736
FFORT
BURDENS GRANT
BE
PLEASANT
THE AMERIVED
(ANG) NOLIA
(*)
AND
FORT WILLIAM
17155
T
ROANOKE GRANT
FORT LEWIS
AUSE
1744 JOHN MASON
JORT PREDERICK
1735
1.NBURG 1746
S
BRUN
,
TRIAL
FORT
་་ 1.
[AM] MAGNIS FORT
PORTS
D
301
Beverley Manor, 1736, 118,000 Acres--Staunton, Augusta County, Virginia
William McNabb received a 300 acre land grant in Feb. 1749. He arrived in the
area circa 1737, with his children Baptist, John, Samuel, Betty, James and,
possibly, Andrew. Some accounts : include William and David also but these
appear unlikely to have been William's sons, by his first wife; possibly by the 2nd
527
wifs.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_059.txt
There is no
MCNABBay,
to ascertain whether this Wm M: NABB is the father of Baptist
or the son of. BAPTIST M: NABB. William McNABBIL. 1789
William McNABBII, his grandson died
ofter 1809.
This Indentur max then the teeth Day
of July
in the
Madi
of our Lord one thousand swin
year of a
hundred and Begkly four Between William McGrabbby
of Washington bounty in the state of North barcha
of the one Part and John Tiktain of the
and State
res ald
affores
County
of the other Part Helrejseth
b for
that the saca William M. Nabb
x and in Conse
ducation of Eighty Bund North Carolina bue
ancy to him in hand paid by the Saia Ichn
Jiplain the recupt whereof Ive hereby achasan
ата
hath
myself fully satisfied Continued and .
I given granted Bargained and sold and
rileasa Expoffel
Presents do
and
confirmed
rant Bargain
grant.
Release Conway.
and by the
and sell alleen
and beaform unto the said
Fifteen his hurs and assigns forever all the
or parcel of Land lying
anal
bung Sitteal
senhengler
reald an
Hashington County offoresaid
being part of said William Metalls Sand
at a spanish oak on Josepho
Beginning
line thence North forty four Degrees west
hundred and twenty
and twenty seven Polis to a black
Corner to said Schlaen thence North fifty
East one hundred and sixty Potes to à in
Daved Jobs line thence south livinly fore
half Degrees best thirty four Poles to
an
528
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_060.txt
ory
thence south
oak thence south sexteen Degrees Cast
four Poles to a small hics.
eight Degrees test one hundred and
Beginning
to the B.
312y
Containing one hun
To have an x to hold the said Tract or i
Land with all the a
appurtenances thereunto
and also the reverus & & Revertions Res
-Remain air Aenes Iseues an a Ji
and
therunte Belonging unto him the
John Sittain and
The saca Whellam
Doth bovinat and a gr
a gree to and with
Saux John Schtain his heves and ass
times forever hereafter Peaceably and quite
have hola Gropy Popps
granted
ana enjoy the affore
land and Premeres Pogathere
and every of its appurtenances with the Lat.
ble Molestation or Interuption of hem- the
William M Stabb his hers and
дач
every
afsogns
のを
other Person or Persons Clarmin
to blaimbfrom
or under him
Ir: Witness where of the Said Hittianalltac
hoth set his hand an a
the Day and
affixio his seal
a year first above written.
Signed Sealed and Delivera in Presence
of us
Thomas Gowerly &
Samuel Sittain
529
William Mirable
Washington County, Tenn. Deed Book 3
30 July 1784/ Pages 263, 264, 265.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_061.txt
-ety
iam Preston for £5
Cathew's pay until he
Preston for £115
on from David Longa
p.
William Preston for
cholas Smith. D. S.
1759
Nov. 23
6QQ183
1759
Nor. 23
6QQ183
1759
Nov. 26
6QQ184
Papers of William Preston
Hart, Silas. Receipt to William Preston for £1 17s. 9d. in
full of John Lynn's pay. D. S. 1 p.
Knox, Robert. Receipt to William Preston for 27s. on ac-
count of Peter Atkins. D. S. 1 p.
Martin, James. Receipt to William Preston for £3 5s. in
full of his pay and all accounts. D. S. 1 p.
Allcorn, James. Receipt to William Preston for £3 3s. in
full of his pay until May 2, 1759. D. S. 1 p.
Wisconsin, re
m Preston for £3 16s.
ral and all accounts
1759
Preston for £21s. 1d.
pay. D. S. 1 p.
iam Preston for 21s.
and Edward Thomp
Preston for £3 4s. on?
Witnessed by Thomas
DEC. 3
6QQ184
[1759]
6QQ158
[1759]
6QQ165
[1759]
6QQ163
Signed by mark. 1 p.
McNabb, William Receipt to William Preston for £2 7s. See letter
being the balance due his son, Samuel McNabb. next page
from State
Moffett, George. Receipt to William Preston for £21 6s. Historical
on account of Thomas Davies. D. S. 1 p.
Society of
1760
am Preston for £2 78.
ccounts. D. S. 1 p.
amsburg, Va. Com-
1 as collector of the
ported by land in the
1 p. Endorsed: Col
2QQ27
liam Preston for £3
Thomas' pay. D. S.
m Preston for 8s. for
Amherst by his son,
_rchibald Alexander
JAN. 22
6QQ184
1760
FEB. 22
1760
FEB. 25
6QQ185
1760
FEB. 25
6QQ185
Sleeker, Luderich. Receipt to William Preston for £6 2s.
in full of his own and his son's pay; also 6s. on
account of Hugh Miller, and 6s. on account of
Samuel McNabb. D. S. 1 p.
Davies, Thomas. Receipt to William Preston for £2 9s. in
full of all accounts. Witnessed by Benjamin
Estill. Signed by mark. 1 p.
Adams, James. Philadelphia. Letter to Capt. William
Preston, Augusta [County], Va. A reward of-
fered for the apprehension of persons concerned
in murder of Indians in the province [Pennsyl-
vania]; Davis to be informed of his wife's
improved health. A. L. S. 1 p. Endorsed:
James Adams, Winter.
Gredie, John. Receipt to William Preston for 45s. in full
of his pay. Witnessed by William Thompson.
Signed by mark. 1 p.
McClellan, John. Receipt to William Preston for £2 13s.
9d. in full of his pay and all accounts. Witnessed
by Uriah Akers. Signed by mark. 1 p.
[53]
Draper
Collection.
530
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_062.txt
STATE HISTO
HISTORIC
shs
CAL
SOCIETY
NISNO
1846
OF WISC
THE STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF WISCONSIN
H. Nicholas Muller III, Director
March 7, 1989
816 State Street
Madison, Wisconsin 53706
608/262-3266
Mr. Walter C. Davidson
1309 East Brown
Llano, Texas 78643-2405
Dear Mr. Davidson:
This is a response to your letter of February 1.
We examined the indexes to all the various Draper finding aids and found
only one reference to a William McNabb. This reference is to a receipt
in a military receipt book kept by William Preston of Augusta County,
Virginia. In this volume members of Preston's company of Augusta County
Rangers entered receipts for pay, provisions, and other services.
description of the McNabb receipt is attached. It goes on to say that
the receipt is for pay for the months of March, April and four days in
May. [1759]
Sincerely,
Harent. Melle,
Harold L. Miller
Reference Archivist
A
HLM:cm
2242a-17
531
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_063.txt
"
Lyman CHALKLEY'S references to William McNABB:
*Page 541.-28th February, 1749. Same (Meaning land grant) to William McNabb,
300 acres in Beverley Manor. Corner Samuel Downey, Adam Thompson's line;
corner John Campbell%;B corner James Callison; Alexander McFeeter's line;
Teste: John Lin, John Linn, Andrew McClure. (Page 281)**
Page 565.-28th February 1749....William McNabb's line. (Page 281)
Page 654.-28th February 1749....William McNabb's line. (Page 283)
Page 677.-2d March 1749. Wm. McNabb's and John Campbell's line. (Page 284)
1750--March 19,....William McNabb obtained Marriage License in Augusta County,
Virginia((Married (2nd wife) Martha Bennett, widow of Richard Bennett who had
died in 1743.) (Page 275)
Page 499.-22d November 1753...Corner....Wm. McNabb's land. (Page 318)
Page 188.-16th March 1754.... Wm. McNabb's line.(Page 323)
Page 304.-2d May 1754.... Wm. McNabb's line. (Page 326)
Page 183.-21st May 1768....William McNabb's line. (Page 477)
Page 364.-23d April 1770. William ( ) McNabb and Martha ( ) to Jacob Gebhard
(Gabhard, Gebhort, Gabherd, Gabhert), (British Pounds) 10, 150 acres in
Beverly Manor on North Branch of Christian's Creek; corner James McNabb's,
part of same tract; corner Samuel Downey; Adam Thompson's line; corner James
McNabb's, part of same tract. Delivered: Jacob Gabbert, February 1779. (Page 499)
(James McNabb was William McNabb's son by Wm.'s first wife, Betty Aiken)
Page 391.-23d April 1770. William McNabb ( ) and Martha ( ) to son, James
McNabb, (British Pounds) 10, 150 acres on North Fork of Christian's Creek in
Beverley Manor; corner Alexander McFeeters; corner Samuel McNabb's part of tract.
Teste: Jas. Ewing, Alexander McFeeters, Samuel McNabb***John( ) Campbell.
Delivered: James McNabb, June 1780. (Page 500)
Page 334. 29th August 1777. List of those indebted to the estate of Roger
North--....some 50 names....Wm. McNabb, No. Mountain..some additional 40
names.. .(Page 167)
*These page numbers refer to the page in the Augusta County, Virginia records
in the Courthouse in Staunton, Virginia.
**These page numbers, at the end of each item,ereferato the pagesinn Chalkleyy
on which the item is found.
***Samuel McNabb was Wm. McNabb's son by Wm.'s first wife, Betty Aiken. Both he
and
James were born in Glendochart, Scotland, OR MONROE COUNTY, PENN. more
Deed Book No. 24 (Augusta County, Virginia)
likely.
Page 10.- 18 March 1783. Benjamin Bennett, of Rockbridge, son and heir-at-law
of Richard Bennett, deceased, to Rev. Archibald Scott, 245 acres gained by
Benjamin from Beverley by a suit in chancery in 1780 in Augusta County Court,
being the plantation where Wm. McKnab(McNabb) and Jacob Gabert formerly livedad
(Benjamin Bennett was Wm. McNabb's step-son; son of Martha Bennett, Wm.'s
2d wife.) (Page 567)
Page 29.-6th April 1768. Samuel McNabb and Isabell ( ) to Jacob Gabhart, 10
shillings, 225 acres, part of a larger tract surveyed for Thomas Perey. (Page 473)
532
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_064.txt
CHRONICLES
OF THE
Scotch-Irish Settlement.
IN
VIRGINIA
EXTRACTED FROM THE ORIGINAL COURT RECORDS OF
AUGUSTA COUNTY
1745-1800
BY
LYMAN CHALKLEY
✓ DEAN OF THE COLLEGE OF LAW OF KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY, LATE JUDGE OF THE
COUNTY COURT OF AUGUSTA COUNTY, VIRGINIA
Published by
MARY S. LOCKWOOD
Honorary Vice-President General, National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution
COMPLETE IN THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME I.
PRINTERS:
THE COMMONWEALTH PRINTING CO.
ROSSLYN, VA.
533
533
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_065.txt
Camilton, 230 acres
rk. Teste: Robert
- 236 acres in Bev-
; passes Wilson's
■ Daniel Harrison,
Her Herron, March,
Gent., to Arthur
stonehouse).
ah (dower released
x's Creek. Corner
Hower. Delivered:
-er, and Margaret,
Dyer (deceased),
son's line. Teste:
ent., to Robert
le River. Teste:
Nealey, 245 acres.
am Caldwell, 440
Pearson and An-
William Palmer;
Robert Cunning-
00 acres; part of
William Beverley,
me. Teste: James
iam Wright, 155
xander Hender-
■e. Teste: James
son, 276 acres in
Nathanial Davies.
Beverley Manor.
dger (Rodgers),
Cathey's River;
ner. Considera-
5 Moffett.
David Cunning-
ing to John Mc-
nes McCutchan's
line (son of John); corner Patrick Cunningham; Alexander Campbell's
line; David Campbell's line. Teste: Patrick Martin, John Trimble.
Page 628. 28th February, 1749. Same to George Perry, 360 acres in
Teste:
Beverley Manor. Corner George Vance; James Lockhart's line.
Robert and David Conningham.
Page 632.-28th February, 1749. Same to David Campbell, 106 acres
in Beverley Manor. Corner Alexander Campbell; corner David Cunning-
ham. Teste: William Christian, Samuel Steel, John Christian.
Page 635. 28th February, 1749. Same to Nathaniel Davise, 150 acres in
Beverley Manor. Corner Arthur Hamilton; corner Samuel Downey and
James Gilmore. Teste: George Pirie, James Henderson.
Page 638.-27th February, 1749. Same to Robert Young, planter (farmer)
part of John Young's land in Beverley Manor (234 acres) on Back Creek. ✓
Corner to Hugh Young and John Trimble; corner William McPheeters;
corner James Young. Teste: Thomas Stewart and Charles Dalhouse.
Page 642.- 28th February, 1749. Same to same, 550 acres whereon he
now lives. In Beverley Manor whereon Robert now lives. Corner in his
former survey; corner William McClintock; corner Hugh Young; John
Browne's line.
Page 645.-28th February, 1749. Same to James Young, planter, 436
Corner Robert Young; Mc-
acres in Beverley Manor on Back Creek.
Feeter's line; corner Andrew Pickens; corner Robert Campbell; corner
Patrick Martin. Teste: John Wilson, John Gay.
Page 648. Same to John Trimble, Patrick Martin and William Mc-
Feeters, planters, 140 acres in Beverley Manor. Adam Thompson's line;
corner Samuel Templeton; Samuel Downey's line. Teste: Samuel Downey,
John and Robert Wilson.
Page 650. Same to Robert Craig, 178 acres in Beverley Manor; Cathey's
River. Adley Maxwell, Robert Patterson's line. Delivered: Grizel Craig
4th July, 1755. Teste: William Thompson, Charles Campbell, Adam Thom-
son.
Page 654-28th February, 1749. Same to John Campbell, 325 acres in
Beverley Manor. Corner Adam Thomson and Andrew McClure; corner
Thomas Peevy; William McNabb's line; Adam Thompson's line. Teste:
Robert Wilson, William Baskins. John Lin.
Page 656-28th February, 1749. Same to John Wilson, Gent., 306 acres.
at North Mountain Meeting House in Beverley Manor. James Lockhart's
line; corner William Buntine and Nathaniel Davise. Teste: Charles Camp-
bell.
Page 659.-28th February, 1749. Same to Jacob Lockhart, planter, 210
acres in Beverley Manor. Teste: William Christian, Samuel Steel, William
Campbell.
Page 662.-28th February, 1749. Same to William Dunlap, 100 acres on
Middle River in Beverley Manor. Corner Robert Kenney; James Hender-
son's corner. Teste: John McClure, Patrick Martin.
Page 665-28th February, 1749. Same to James Henderson, 157 acres
in Beverley Manor. Corner Mathew Robertson; on Cathey's River; corner
Robert Kenny. Teste: William Palmer, Robert Cunningham.
Page 668.-28th February, 1740. Thomas Stewart to William Beverley,
534
283
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_066.txt
Co George
oshua, 5th
Givens.
McCurry,
s, Adam
rt Camp-
lens, and
ays, John
Archer,
er James
Teste:
-
- Samuel
his wife,
nelius in
k North
William
Corner
as Hart,
County,
Lented to
Thomp-
age, 305
Corner
-ley 28th
_ ewis to
Corner
Patton,
Teste:
Beverley
ills' line.
2 acres
tt, John
James
gh, 240
Arthur
ng, 190
ert Pat-
n King.
50 acres
in Beverley Manor, cor. Robert Young, a branch under the Sugar Loaf. De-
livered to William McClintock August, 1775. Teste: Thomas Henderson,
Thomas Rutledge, Robert Ramsey.
Page 541.-28th February, 1749. Same to William McNabb, 300 acres
in Beverley Manor. Corner Samuel Downey, Adam Thompson's line;
corner John Campbell; corner James Callison; Alexander McFeeter's line.
Test John Lin, John Linn, Andrew McClure.
Page 544-27th February, 1749. Same to Thomas Peerie, planter, 375
Corner John
acres in Augusta County, Shennadore in Beverley Manor.
Campbell; corner Robert Young; corner William McClintock. Delivered:
Thomas Kirkpatrick, January, 1752. Teste: Jacob Lockhart, Nathaniel
Davis.
Same to Hugh Young, farmer, 200
Page 547-28th February, 1749.
acres in Beverley Manor, joining his former survey. Pat. Martin's line. Cor-
ner Pickin's old place; William McClintock's line. Teste: John Brown.
Same to Andrew McClure, 300
Page 549.-28th February, 1749-50.
acres in Beverley Manor. Corner tract surveyed for Samuel Templeton.
William McClintock's line; Adam Thompson's line. Teste: James Peare,
John Linn, William Wright.
Page 552-28th February, 1749-50. Same to William Smith, 400 acres
at foot of Brown Hill; Smith's Creek of Calfpasture; the Brown Hill; Wil-
liam McCutchin's land. Delivered: Samuel Henderson, March, 1756. Teste:
John Brown, William Eiliott.
Page 556.-28th February, 1749. Same to David Henderson, 580 acres
on South Branch Shannandoe, in Beverley Manor on South River. Wil-
liam Patterson's line. Teste: William Wright, Alexander Henderson.
Page 559-28th February, 1749. Same to John Campbell, 247 acres on
Beverley Manor on South River. Manor line. Corner William Patterson;
Joseph Tees' line. Teste: William Petterson and Richard Pillson, William
Johnston.
Page 562.-28th February, 1749. Same to William Patterson, 347 acres in
Beverley Manor on South River. Corner John Campbell in Manor line;
Delivered:
Joseph Tees' line; McClure's land; Archibald Stuart's line.
Isabella Gibson August, 1761. Teste: John Cabell, James Hamilton.
Page 565. 28th February, 1749. Same to James Peevie, planter, 220
acres in Beverley Manor; formerly James Montgomery's; former survey
of said Montgomery and Thomas Peevie's land; John Campbell's line;
William McNabb's line; John Lynn's land. Teste: Thomas Henderson,
Thomas Rutlidge. Robert Ramsey. Delivered: Thomas Kirkpatrick Janu-
ary 1st. 1752.
Page 568.-28th February, 1749. Same to Robert Steel, 309 acres in
Beverley Manor; corner Robert Alexander and Robert Ramsey; corner
Nathaniel Steel; James Fulton's line; corner Samuel Steel. Teste: Samuel
Steel, John McClure.
Page 570-27th February, 1749. Same to James Brown, of Staunton,
Lot No. 3 in Staunton; Lot No. 8 woodland. Teste: William Ledgewood,
John Jameson.
Page 573.-27th February, 1749. Same to Robert Campbell, 53 acres
in Beverley Manor; correr to Manor and patent line; John Rusk's line;
delivered: Joseph Tees, November, 1754.
281
535
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_067.txt
on South Fork Shannandoe, 853 acres in Beverley Manor on South River.
Corner Capt. James Patton; Beverley Manor line. Teste: Cha. Dick.
Page 670.-2nd March, 1749. William Beverley to Thomas Stewart,
353 acres. Above. Corner Col. James Patton.
Page 673.-28th February, 1749. Same to Charles Dalhouse, 414 acres
in Beverley Manor. Samuel Gay's corner; James McClure's line; corner
George Robinson. Teste: Francis Beaty, Thomas Stewart.
Page 677.-2d March, 1749. Same to Adam Thompson, 287 acres in
Beverley Manor. In Beverley Manor, corner Samuel Downey, Wm. Mc-
Nabb's and John Campbell's line; corner Andrew McClure, Sr. Teste:
Chas. Dick, Thos. Wood.
Page 680.-2d March, 1749. Same to Wm. Preston, 334 acres in Bev-
erley Manor. In Beverley Manor, John Maxwell's line; Col. Lewis' line.
Page 683.-2d March, 1749. Same to same, 365 acres. In Beverley
Manor, on Lewis Creek, above Court House; Col. Beverley's Mill Place
line.
Page 686.-1st March, 1749. Same to Jean Cook, widow, and John
and Mary Cook, minors (the whole contains 802 acres), 23 of 2 tracts in
one place, and to John Cook the remainder of the other third sold to Jane
Cook, widow, during her life, according to will of Patrick Cook, her late
husband. 1748, in Augusta-Nathan Lusk's line; John McCutchin's line.
Teste: James Lockhart, Robt. Young.
Page 690.-28th February, 1749. Same to John Pickins, Gent., 300
acres in Beverley Manor. Christie's Creek, Corner to Kerr; Fork of Long
Meadow Run and Christies Creek supposed to be a corner in the patent
line; corner Geo. Rodgers; widow Baskins line.
Chas. Campbell.
Teste: Jno. McClure,
Page 693.-2d March, 1749-50. Same to Jno. McClure, farmer. In
Beverley Manor, corner Edward Hall, 359 acres. Teste: W. Russell, Jno.
Brown, Chas. Campbell.
Page 695.-28th February, 1749. Same to John Brown, Gent., lot No. 4
in Staunton and 50 acres in Beverley Manor, lot No. 1, Wm. Lewis's land.
Teste: W. Russell, Jno. Pickins, Jno. McClure.
Page 698.-2d March, 1749. Same to Robert Robison, 82 acres in Bever-
ley Manor; in Beverley Manor, patent line; corner James Lusk; corner Widow
Cook; corner Benj. Borden's great tract. Teste: John Brown, Adam Thomp-
son, John Shields.
Page 699.-1st February, 1749-50. Benj. Borden to Thomas Paxton,
joyner; corner Wm. McClung in John Stevenson's old line; corner George
Stevenson, John Paul's corner; corner Andrew Stevenson, William McLung's
line, 410 acres. Delivered: Wm. McClung for Thos. Paxton, June, 1752.
Page 702.-22d February, 1749-50. Same to John McCoskery, 440 acres
of 92100; corner Daniel Lyle, John Lowry, Sen's. line, Moses Trimble's line.
Teste: Wm. McCoskery, Jacob Gray, Francis Beatey.
Page 706-21st May, 1750. Thomas Black to Wm. Johnston, 269 acres
in Beverley Manor, on Black's Run of Christian's Creek, Wm. Henderson's
line, George Rutlidge's line; corner James Armstrong's iron mine, Margaret,
wife of Thomas. Teste: Hugh Martin, George Douglass, Robert Conning-
ham.
Pag
Gent.,
house)
Robert
Page
Gent.,
tian; C
houses
Page
caster
Cub R
Christo
also A
Page
chattel
Page
caster
225 ac
Christo
Page
of sam
Page
gusta,
Run; c
20th A
Page
livered
now liv
Williar
Page
Carolin
erick.
Page
92100.
Page
livered
patent
Patton
Page
convey
Wm. B
Page
100 acr
Porteus
Page
Willian
where
ham B
536
284
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_068.txt
'
following list of Marriage Licenses between the years 1748 and 1774 is
compiled from entries made by the Clerk on the fly leaves at the ends of the
Fee Books. They can scarcely be complete even for those years that are
noted. Probably the desire to be brief is the only explanation of the
remarkable circumstance that only the names of men are entered.
After the establishment of the Commonwealth, ministers of any denomi
nation might be authorized to celebrate matrimony by license from a court.
They could act, however, only after a bond had been given in the Clerk's
office as security that the marriage laws would not be violated by the issuance
of a license to the parties, and the issuance of that license. These bonds
were generally given by the prospective bridegroom and one or more of
his friends as surety. In most cases, the parent or guardian of the woman
gave a written consent, which was filed with the bond. The written con-
sent was witnessed by two or more persons. The bond itself frequently
bore the names of attesting witnesses. A copy of such a bond and consent
is printed immediately before the list of marriage bonds.
After the marriage ceremony, the minister made a return to the Clerk's
office of the fact, with its date.
The lists given herewith are complete within the period noted as far
as could be determined from the files in the Clerk's office.
It will be noticed that the first four hundred and forty-eight notes of
bonds are arranged in this form: First, the names of the man and woman
to be married, with the date of the bond; second, the identification of the
woman, and whether consent was given; third, the names of witnesses
and surety. The remainder of the notes follow more closely the form of
the bond-that is: first, the name of the bridegroom and his sureties, with
date of the bond; second, names of the man and woman to be married;
third, identification of the woman, or man, or both; fourth, whether con-
sent was given; fifth, names of witnesses to the bond, or consent.
MARRIAGES LICENSES IN AUGUSTA COUNTY.
1748 February , Archibald Elliott and Sarah Clark.
1749-June 17, John Buchanan and Margaret Patton; June 20, Archibald
Huston and Mary Stevenson; June 28, John Hinds and Jean Kerr; July
Robert Boyd and Eleanor Porterfield; August
-, John Dris-
kell and Jane Burnett; September _, Silas Hart and Jane Robertson;
September
Elijah McClenachan and Lettice Breckinridge; Decem-
Charles Whitaker; February -. John McGill, John Jones,
George Wilson; March _, James Edmondson, John Ramsey, James
Huston.
ber
8
1750 March 19, Robert Finla, William McNabb; April
James
Young; May
Joshua Mathews; June 2, Joseph White, Joseph Maze.
1751-April 15, Edward Beard, Henry Fuler; June 3, John Poage; June
15, Jacob Harman; April 4, Thomas Fulton; July 11, William Smith;
September 10, Thomas Milsap; Septembe: 4, Andrew Leeper.
1753 November 22, John Montgomerie.
1754 February 4, John Bowyer; March 23, Fred Smith, John Patton;
May 1, James Bratton; July 23, George Poage.
1756 November _, Alexander Hamilton; August
Miller.
275
William MENABB married (2nd W.) MARTHA
BENNETT, widow of RICHARD BENNETT, d. 1743,
Patrick
537
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_069.txt
and conveyed by him to Wm., Jr. Middle River, George Scot's line; North
River, Wm. Baskins' land, Buffalo Run.
Page 469.-26th July, 1753. Francis Puicer (Puison, Puiser) and Sarah,
of Rowan County, North Carolina, to John Hinton, 1753, 236 acres on
Muddy Creek. Teste: Joseph and John Bryan and Paul Kuster.
Page 472.-22d November, 1753. Captain Robert Annstrong and Lydia
to James Armstrong, 1753, 70 acres, part of tract patented to Robert on
Middle River where he now lives. Delivered: Sampson Archer, March,
1759.
Page 475-21st November, 1753. Charles Berry to Robert Gamwell,
140 acres, part of tract 326 acres sold by Borden to Charles.
Page 477-7th September, 1753. Samuel McMahon to Samuel Hender-
son, 165 acres on Dry River between Daniel Smith's and Shifman's lands.
Teste: Robert McMahon, George Crawford, Henry Reburn.
Page 479.- 1753. Edward McDonnald, farmer, to David Clyde,
yeoman, 200 acres on Roanoke where Edward lives, patented to him 1753.
140 acres joining above and where Joseph McDonald lives. Conveyed to
Edward by James Patton, mortgage.
Page 483.-21st November, 1753. William Purris, weaver, to John Mc-
Machan, of Frederick County, 427 acres in Borden's grant. Cor. Alex.
Miller. Conveyed by Borden to James Glasgow and by Glasgow to Purris,
1753. Teste: Wm. Christian, Pat. Cunningham.
Page 486.- -1753. James Wood, gent., of Frederick, to Thomas.
Shankland, 400 acres on Muddy Creek granted to James, 12th January,
1746. Teste: John Harrison, Walter Patterson, Wm. Russell, Joseph Ruth-
erford.
Page 490. John Doughert (signed Jocort) to Alex. Walker, 1753, 94
acres. From Patton, 1751, Craig's Creek at Indian Camp. Teste: John
Smith, Adam Lewnis, Richard Borton, Jno. Sproul, Ro. Rennix, Samuel
Walker.
Page 493-21st November, 1753. Thomas Williams to John Mathews,
Jr., 65 acres on North Branch James opposite Ann Sally's land. Delivered
to John Mathews, son of Richard, 6th March, 1773. Teste: John Maxwell,
Jno. Sprott, Joshua Mathews.
Page 496.-25th August. Alex. Ritchie, blacksmith, and Mary to Gabriel
Jones, of Frederick County, attorney, 1753, 400 acres, James River above
Craig's Creek. Purchased of Alex. Douglass, heir-at-law of his brother,
Roger Douglass, to whom it was patented. Teste: James Donalson (Don-
elson).
Page 499.-22d November, 1753. Adam Thompson, planter, and Eliza-
beth to John Richey, blacksmith, 100 acres in Beverley Manor. Cor. Alex.
Richey, Wm. McNabb's land. Teste: Wm. Ackery, Andrew Scott, James
Sayers.
Page 502-21st November, 1753. Wm. Coruthers to John White, 187
acres in Borden's tract. Tract of John Gray, deceased, McCreary's line,
McSpeden's line, Nathan People's cor.
Page 505.-21st November, 1763. Same to Nathan Peoples, 187½ acres
Borden's land; James Greenlee's and John Gray's, deceased, line; cor. above,
McSpeadin's line; Mathew Lyle's cor.
818
Page 50
90 acres a
Page 511
eat 3d Not
Page 514
bove.
Pabe 517
acres. As
Page 520
Middle
Kerr.
Page 521
heir of Jan
Robert Rob
Manor line
Delivered
✓McCutchan
Page 52
be allowed
Nor her life
Wm. Walk
Page 527
Craig's Cre
Ritchey, 7th
Page 530
Branch.
Page 533
Archibald (
Page 554
Augusta.
acres paten
red to Joh
☐ Page 557
* Lunenbu
branch of
☑7 Page 560
☑Patented to
Roanoke.
*Page 1.
Augusta, t
Deverley N
conveyed b
Lask (Lod
erley Mant
James Sh
Court) by
and orphan
538
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_070.txt
Ratcliff, 65 acres
el Ekerling, 125
1753, on Woods
Die, 275 acres at
ew River. Cor.
Miller, 380 acres
n Woods River.
ezer West.
21st November,
d's land on west
Stringer. Eliza
Harch, 1754, 173
on the head of
nd where Mary
to Samuel Mc-
February, 1749.
e's line. Teste:
Huston.
o David McCos-
ast, 1747. Cor.
garet Hutcheson,
. John Searight,
ry McBride, his
all rights, Royal
tinn, coals, iron
■nd.
ler of Frederick
ration is "good
fter reserved to
aton (Littleton),
1750, on South
inegar. Teste:
r, 80 acres, part
omas Luttenton,
r. Cor. Henry
1, 75 acres, part
ork of Roanoke.
-d, 90 acres pat-
sing Bradshaw's
Page 147.-17th December, 1753. Same to John Stedham, 190 acres by
patent 3d November, 1750, east side of the creek. (?) Teste: Jacob Patton,
Sarah (her mark) Patton.
Page 150.-18th Deember, 1753. Same to Frederick Hartsough, 130
acres by patent 3d November, 1750, on Craig's Creek, a branch of James
River.
Page 152.-17th December, 1753. Same to Mathew Patton, 266 acres
by patent 3d November, 1750, on Craig's Creek. Teste: Robert Williams.
Page 155.-20th December, 1753. Same to Charles Nutts, 64 acres by
patent 3d November, 1750, in a bent of Craig's Creek. Teste: Jacob and
Mathew Patton.
Page 158.-17th December, 1753. Patton to Robert Williams, 275 acres
patented 3d November, 1750, on Craig's Creek. Teste: Henry Halstone.
Page 160.-20th December, 1753. Same to Haunce Maurice, 246 acres
patented 3d November, 1750, on Craig's Creek.
Page 163.-18th December, 1753. Same to Plackard Scilar, 162 acres
patented 3d November, 1750, on Craig's Creek.
Page 166.-20th December, 1753. Same to George Fridley, 100 acres
patented as supra, on Craig's Creek.
Page 168.-18th December, 1753. Same to William Plummer, 218 acres
patented, supra, on Craig's Creek.
Page 172.-21st March, 1754. Beverley by Lewis and Madison to Geo.
Rodgers, 170 acres in Beverley Manor. Cor. Robert Wilson and Robert
Sayers; cor. land of David Moore, deceased.
Page 174.-21st March, 1754. Beverley to Robert McClenachan; lot 13
in Town of Staunton containing ½ acre. Livery of seisin.
Page 176.-21st March, 1754. Beverley to John Harman, of Staunton,
91 acres in Beverley Manor in the Plumtree Draft above Robert Poage's,
lot No. 6 in Staunton, lot No. 4 of Woodland. Livery of seisin.
Page 179.-23d March, 1754. John McPheeters to Wm. Martin, 198
acres, part of land Jno. now possesses. Cor. John McPheeters in James
Young's line; cor. Robert Campbell's land, now James Berry's.
Page 181 March, 1753. Jno. Brown, planter, to Haunce Harper,
planter, 175 acres on Newfoundland Creek, cor. to land in possession of
Haunce Harper, also of Mathew Harper. Margaret, wife of John, releases
dower.
Page 182.-20th March, 1754. Frances Beatey to Israel Christian, mer-
chant of Augusta, lot 11 in Beverley Manor in the town commonly called
and known by the name of the town of Staunton, conveyed by Lewis & Mc-
Clenachan on behalf of the County to Thomas Paxton 17th June, 1752 and
sold by Paxton to Beaty. (Livery of seisin by handful of earth.
Page 185. 2d March, 1754. Patrick Downey (Downing) to William
Miller, 155 acres on Craig's Creek, conveyed to Downey by Patton. Teste:
David Miller, Wm. Carravin.
Page 188.-16th March, 1754, Beverley to Samuel Downey, 80 acres in
Beverley Manor. Cor. Alex. McFeeters, Wm. McNabb's line; cor. said
Downey's old survey.
Page 191-19th March, 1754. Beverley to Robert Finley, of Town of
Staunton, merchant, 155 acres on a chestnut ridge in Beverley Manor.
Cor. Wm. Preston's land near Staunton.
828
539
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_071.txt
Page 293-15th May, 1754.
north side Christian's Creek in
mouth John Buchanan's Mill
Creek; James Colewell's line.
Page 295.-15th May, 1754. John Paul to Roger Keys. Benjamin
Borden, Sr., had agreed to convey to John McDowell several parcels or
tracts of land in Borden's tract to John McDowel and McDowell had cove
nanted to sell 400 acres to John Paul. Borden and McDowell both died, and
Paul brought suit to compel a conveyance, which was decreed, but Benjamin,
Jr., died before conveyance; but Archibald Alexander and Magdalen did
convey to Paul, 10th April, 1754, now, $12, 400 acres where Benjamin Bor--
den, Jr., and John McDowell lived on a small branch of Mary Creek at a
corner in patent line; corner to said John Paul's land; corner to said John
Paul and Thomas Paxton, joyner.
Beverley to John McNutt, £6, 200 acres on
Beverley Manor; Geo. Rutledge's line above
Creek; corner Wm. Marshal on said Mill
Page 300.-17th May, 1754. John (his mark) Justess (Justice) to
Michael Harper, £30, 224 acres conveyed to Justice 22d May, 1752, on
Newfoundland Creek; corner to a tract in possession of Samuel Delamoun-
thony; corner to land in possession of Carrolile.
Page 304.-2d May, 1754. John Richey, blacksmith. to Adam Thomp
son, planter, £40, 100 acres in Beverley Manor; corner Alexander Richey's
land; Wm. McNabb's line.
Page 307.-16th May, 1754. Adam Thompson, planter, to Samuel Kin
kead (Kingkead). £6. 100 acres in Beverley Manor; corner Alexander
Richey; Wm. McNabb's line. Delivered to Jno. Buchanan January, 1756.
Page 308.-15th May. 1754. Patrick Campbell, Sr., and Elinor to son
John Campbell. Patrick had purchased from Beverley 1,546 acres in
Beverley Manor by deed 21st February, 1738. recorded in Orange; con-
veyance paternal love, good will and affection; 270 acres of the 1,546 acres.
corner Patrick Campbell. Jr., in Wm. Thompson's line; Charles Campbell's
line.
Page 312.-10th April. 1754. Robert Sayer and Hannah to Geo. Rogers,
£9.5.0. 50 acres in Beverley Manor, part of 2 tracts conveyed in fee by
Beverley to Joseph Reed and by Joseph Reed to David Sayer and by David
to Robert Saver; corner Ro. Saver in Wm. Thompson's line; corner in said
Roger's old line; Robert Wilson's line.
Page 315.-19th May, 1754. Adam Dickinson to James Boreland, £75,
327 acres, part of a large tract patented to Adam 1st June, 1750, on Jack-
son's River, west side of River; corner John Bordon (Bardon), the patent
line.
Page 318.-19th May. 1754. Adam Dickinson to William Dean, £75,
327 acres, part of 820 acres patented to Adam as above on Jackson River;
corner James Boreland on Indian Camp Creek. Teste: Archibald Boreland.
Delivered to John Dean. 1765.
Page 321-18th May. 1754. Adam Dickinson to John Bird, £25. 215
acres, part of above patent; corner Wm. Jackson. Delivered to John Dean
June, 1765.
Page 324.-21st August. 1754. Beverley to James Hamilton, £6, 200
acres on Elk Run in Beverley Manor; corner to tract surveyed for David
Edmiston, deceased; James Alexander's line. Delivered to James Hamilton
24th July, 1765.
236
]
Page 327
Andrew Mc
acres conve
recorded in
June, 1746,
Henderson's
a handful o
Page 329
In County C
Culpeper, £
Francis Ki
Stanton. D
Page 331
Elizabeth, t
Alexander
the Presbyt
and on beha
successors:
sideration:
beareth unt
worshipers
Holy Spirit
in considera
fit of the sa
Almighty G
as shall her
a certain n
hath ahead
1 R., 27 P.
and Franci
Andrew Du
Page 335
Edward Me
tract; cross
mark (see
21st June,
Page 339
to Arthur H
part of 368
who posses
Beaty. Te
Page 344
Joseph Ke
Borden, 17
Page 347
to John B
February, 1
Page 350
Beverley M
Page 354
540
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_072.txt
ina, before
, clerk.
John ( )
ys's Creek,
on. Teste:
ys, Jr.
to James
e Creek on
adjudging
1769.
Alexander
n Hind.
mes River,
k in Forks
a ( ) to
ner Chris-
e's corner;
Delivered:
s and Isa-
. Shannin.
n Botkins.
wley. £20,
_ 14 acres,
, surveyed
ohn Kerr,
May, 1760,
Staunton,
athews, to
and paid
him from
Wilson,
Mathews,
McCarty,
= of John
aforesaid,
ler, John
Crow.
■ Harper,
: Thomas
..
Madison,
called the
of John
1764, and
0th July,
1767, containing 200 acres, on Cook's Creek, Joseph' Craven's corner.
livered: Wm. Lambe, February, 1780.
De-
Page 151.-1st July, 1768. John Bowman to Abraham Miller, £180.
545 acres known as lot No. 8, on Linvel's Creek, devised to John by his
father, George Bowman.
Page 153-1st September, 1768. Commission to take privy examination
of Susannah, wife of William Preston, as to deed to Peter Cochrane, dated
10th November, 1764. Executed, 21st September, 1768.
Page 156-15th November, 1768. John Davison and Martha to James
Dunn, £33, 225 acres on a branch of Dry River of Shanandore; Abraham
Smith's line, corner on Stevenson's land. Delivered: Ben. Forsythe, April,
1777.
Page 158. 26th August, 1768. David ( ) Frazeir, eldest son and heir
of William Frazier, deceased. and Barbara, ( ) to Gabriel Jones, attorney
at law, £45, a certain island called the Great Island, 54 acres in Shanandore
River, nearly opposite the plantation whereon Jones lives, patented to
William Frazier, 20th June, 1753. Delivered: Jacob Kinney per order,
6th April, 1804.
Page 161-15th November, 1768. Jacob Bowman, late of Frederick
County, but now of South Carolina, yeoman, to Josiah Davidson, £180, 500
acres on Linwell's Creek, sold by William Linwell to George Bowman,
father of Jacob and devised to Jacob by George.
Page 163.-2d November. 1768. Thomas ( ) Burk and Clearey ( )
to Conrad Peterfish. £14. 177 acres on Dry River, branch of Shanandore,
patented to said Burk, line of land patented for John and Lewis Neall.
Teste: Joseph Hannah, Robert ( ) Frazor, David Frazor.
Page 168.-11th November, 1768. James Douglass and Hannah to John
Stevenson, £50, 355 acres patented to Adam Stephenson, 5th June. 1765,
and conveyed same to James, 16th August, 1766, corner Daniel Henderson.
Daniel Smith's corner. Delivered: Jno. Stephenson, October, 1769.
Page 171-11th November, 1768. Commission to take privy examination
of Hannah as to foregoing deed. Executed 11th November, 1768.
Page 174.-20th November, 1768. James ( ) Anderson, Jr., and Eliza-
beth to James Anderson, Sr., his father. £70, 200 acres, part of 400 acres
patented to said James Anderson, Sr., and by him conveyed to James Jr..
19th May, 1765, on head of Long Glade. Teste: James Bell, John and Wil-
liam Anderson. Delivered: James Anderson, 15th August, 1771.
Page 179.-2d November, 1768. John Eakin and Elizabeth, his wife,
and James Eakin and Anne Eakin, of Bedford. £120, 261 acres, part of
Borden's 92100 acres, corner Andrew and Samuel Eakin. Teste: John,
James and Mathew Lyle.
Page 183.-21st May, 1768. James (
Peerie and Katharine to Thomas
Scot, £5, 220 acres, corner former survey of Thomac Peerie, John Campbell's
line. William McNabb's line, corner John Lynn. Teste: John Handly,
Patrick Buchanan, William Bell. Delivered: Thomas Scott, 30th December,
1773.
Page 186.-15th November, 1768. William Dean and Mary to Hugh
Davis, of York County, Pennsylvania, £5, 550 acres in Beverley Manor,
part of 800 acres formerly belonging to Patrick Cook; corner William Dean;
477
541
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_073.txt
Teste:
( ) to
to John
Belfort,
aharfey,
- part of
by him
= Henry.
to the
■e, 1764,
on, 29th
Ey) and
■, 244½
William
Black,
George
August,
lina, to
Creek,
s eldest
Title
negro
) to
Young.
to his
atented
Teste.
, 10th
corner
Villiam
cres in
wered:
- £30,
Creek;
Wiley,
, 100
acres of 92,100; John Berry's line. Delivered: Samuel Neizbit, 11th May,
1787.
Page 339.-1st March, 1770. Same to Andrew Buchanan, £25, 200 acres
of 92,100; corner Robert Kilpatrick; corner James Wardlaw; corner Sam-
uel Buchanan, Moffet's Creek; corner Moses Buchanan; Joseph Culton's
Delivered: Andrew Buchanan,
line; Andrew Buchanan's old corner.
March, 1773.
Page 343.-1st March, 1770. Same to Alexander Telford, £7, 40 acres
of 92,100; corner William Berry and said Telford; corner David McCosky
and James Buchanan. Delivered: James Telford, 14th June, 1805.
Page 347.-1st March, 1770. Same to Samuel Buchanan, £37, 240 acres
of 92,100, Buffalo Draft, said Buchanan's old line; Samuel Steel's line;
corner James Stewart. Delivered: James Huston, May, 1772.
Page 353.-15th June, 1770. Moses McElvain and Margaret to Thomas
Kinkead, £70, on Great Calfpasture between William Kinkead and Robert
Givin, 26 acres conveyed to Moses by James Loughridge, 21st June, 1763.
Teste: John and William Kinkead.
Page 356.-17th June, 1770. John Hunter and Frances ( ) to Samuel
Hunter, 40 pence, 128 acres conveyed to John by Robert Brookes, con-
veyed by Beverley, 26th November, 1751, in Beverley Manor; John Thomp-
son's line; corner Robert Hunter, now John Thompson; corner Anthony
Black, a cabin by the road between John Hunter's and his son, Samuel
Hunter's. Teste: W. Christian, David Carson.
Page 360.--20th June, 1770. William Milsap (Milsaps) and Anne ( )
to William McDowell, £120, 186 acres on a branch of Smith's Creek, part of
400 acres patented to Thomas Milsaps, 100 acres having been conveyed
to William McGee, 114 acres for John Dilling; Benj. Bordens' line; Fair-
fax's line.
Page 364.-23d April, 1770. William ( ) McNabb and Martha ( )
to Jacob Gebhard (Gabhard, Gabherd, Gabhert, Gebhort), £10, 150 acres
in Beverley Manor on North Branch of Christian's Creek; corner James
McNab's, part of same tract; corner Samuel Downey; Adam Thompson's
Delivered: Jacob Gab-
line; corner James McNab's, part of same tract.
bert, February, 1779.
Page 367.-14th May, 1770. William ( ) McCandless to George Camp-
bell, £119, 183 acres of Borden's 92,100; corner William Alexander; corner
Alexander Greer. Teste: Wm. Alexander, Andrew Moore, Alexander
Greer, Thomas Wilson.
Page 369.-24th May, 1770. Robert Mitchell to Thomas Shields, 1 horse
branded, 1 Dand Flower of de luce, cattle, furniture and crops. Teste:
Wm. Thompson, Patt. Campbell. Delivered: Thos. Shields, 27th March,
1772.
Page 372. 20th April, 1770. John Lowry and Jane ( ) to John Car-
ruthers, £200, 200 acres; corner Thomas Paxton; corner Mackey; corner
Edmiston; Moses Trimble's line, the Barren Hills. Teste: Archibald Alex-
ander, Halbert McClure, Moses Whitesides. Delivered: John Carruthers.
15th November, 1774.
Page 376.-7th April, 1770. David Kinkead and Winnifred and John
Kinkead and Elizabeth ( ) to William Meeteer, £215, 520 acres on
Great Calfpasture; corner Kinkead, crossing the river and Ramsey's Creek,
499
542
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_074.txt
Lockridge's land. Teste: Thos. (his mark) Armstrong, Robert McKittrick,
John Kirk. Delivered: William Meteer, 8th August, 1791.
Page 380.-15th June, 1770. Ralph Laferty and Jane to William Laverty,
£25, 224 acres; corner Adam Dickinson, on Cowpasture River.
Page 382.-20th March, 1770.
£7.3.9, cows, beds and furniture. Teste: Robert Young, Robert Williams.
Same to John King, £6.5, 1 mare and
Page 383.-20th March, 1770.
Cows.
Robert Patterson to John Patterson,
Pag
Null,
Shana
Craige
James
vation
Pag
Sarah
Pag
Lowd
mack
Fowle
)
Page 385.-25th January, 1770.
Orange County, North Carolina, to Andrew Donnaly, £70, 150 acres by
Robert Hall and Isbaella ( ), of
patent, 3d November, 1750, to James Hall, deceased, father to Robert, on
Stewart's Mill Creek. Teste: Richard Holeman, James Faris, Edward
Long, Chas. Lewis, Hugh Hicklin, James Bodkin. Delivered: Andrew
Donnerly, December, 1775.
Page 388.-6th June, 1770. Randal Lockhart to Joseph Kinkead, £4.15.4,
1 feather bed and furniture, viz., bolster, sheets, blanket and rug and one
bedstead, 1 pine table, 1 corner cubbard, 4 chairs, 1 large trunk, 3 pewter
dishes, 1 doz. plates, 1 pot and hooks, 1 frying pan. Delivered: Joseph
Kinkead, August Court, 1770.
Page 389.-20th June, 1770. Nathaniel Lyon to Joseph Kinkead and
William Brown, £30, cows, horses, furniture. Teste: J. Rae.
Page 391.-23d April, 1770. William ( ) McNabb and Martha (
to son, James McNabb, £10, 150 acres on North Fork of Christian's Creek
in Beverley Manor; corner Alexander McFeeters; corner Samuel Mc-
Nab's part of the tract. Teste: Jas. Ewing, Alexander McFeeters, Samuel
McNabb, John ( ) Campbell. Delivered: James McNab, June, 1780.
Page 393.-18th December, 1769. Daniel
Smith, £30.4.10, mortgage, 675 acres on Bever Creek and Spring Creek;
) Henderson to Abraham
corner Hugh Devers land. Teste: James and Hugh Divier, John Craford,
James Dunn. Delivered: Abraham Smith, September, 1770.
Page 398.-19th June, 1770. John ( ) McCutchon to Samuel Mc-
Cutchon, £200, 442 acres in Beverley Manor; corner William McCutchon's
land; corner James McCutchon's. Teste: David Fulton. Delivered: Sam-
uel McCutchon, May Court, 1774.
Page 402. 20th June, 1770. Joseph Mays and Rebecca to Robert Jami-
son, £45, 205 acres in Beverley Manor on head branches of Christian's
Creek; Alexander Campbell's line; Samuel Brafford's line; corner James
Mitchel.
Page 404.-23d September, 1769. Richard Williamson to wife Abby.
Abby refuses to be reconciled and to return to Richard, who renounces all
claim to her, returns her property, refuses to pay her debts, &c. Teste:
William Tees, David Burger.
Page 406. 20th June, 1770.
( ) to Andrew Kinkead, f-
334 acres conveyed to Robert
1763; corner Col. Lewis' land;
Kinkead, November, 1771.
Page 409.-2d June, 1770.
hart for privy examination of
March, 1770, to George Shaver.
Robert Kinkead and Annaheleney (Belina)
-, 159 acres in Beverley Manor, part of
by James Bratton and Elizabeth, 1st May,
corner Gibson's land. Delivered: Andrew
Commission to Silas Hart and James Lock-
Barbara, wife of Jacob Trout; deed, 15th
Executed, 15th June, 1770.
500
543
Pag
Thoma
20th S
father
Teste:
Pag
Willia
patent
tober,
Pag
beth (
dore,
conve
Jno. G
Pag
eldest
said C
106 ad
Burk
a bran
to Ste
heir, 1
Nutt's
Pag
Glaves
Fraze
Teste:
Wm.
Pag
North
to sell
on Fla
acres
P
of Au
sons,
Pag
£3.10.
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_075.txt
V₁
3
W.Tham
nd Chris-
e remem-
May 20,
Court re-
⚫ has had
Widow
by James
-aised by
-Execu-
of Capt.
of plan-
Dianah
Edward
Execu-
s Mara,
aran and
ppraised
Stephen
, James
cMurry,
shes her
ate and
w Don-
ow Pas-
co other
rew and
lly and
Cillespy.
d. The
ttled.
y Cor-
■Office
James
■ne).
wife,
sed of
e; son,
married
Philip
Page 319-2d September, 1779. Catherine Park certifies the following
list to contain all personal estate of Roger North, except debts due on
bonds, bills, notes, &c: Sold 18th November, 1777, to, viz: Capt. Smith,
Daniel Miller, David Keal, Mary Hayard, John Barkly, Robert Aistrop,
Miss Hanley, Mary Coffee, Mary Rackham, John Jasper, Mrs. Parks,
Mrs. North.
Page 334. 29th August, 1777. List of those indebted to the estate of
Roger North Molly Mathews, Michael Diveyer, John Paris, Taylor, Ed-
ward Brayton, Mary Dillon, Wm. Collen, Carolina; Rev. Adam Smith,
Margaret Mountfield, Hannah Sires, Robt. Jameson, Prince Edward;
Andrew Cowen, Holstein; John Adkins, going to Carolina; William
Loveley, Sally McGraw, servant to Dr. Watkins; James Bowyer (Taylor),
John Anderson, Long Glead, Holstein; Joseph Love, Montgomery; Geo.
Berry (son to Francis), James Anderson, son of John, M. River; John
Henderson, son to David, So. River, dead; John Brown, son to Widow, N.
Mtn.; David Steel (tailor), Wm. Jordan, So. River; Wm. Scott (taylor),
John Welsh (tailor), Amos Perkins (blacksmith), Michael McEntosh,
James Cooper, Forks of James; Mary Blackwood, married to McCrosky;
Crawford, brother to Patrick; Wm. Russell, Buchanan's Mill;
Charles Philips, Adam Cribb, Eleanor Craig, M. River; Eleanor Dunn at
Elijah McClenachans, Robert Patterson, No. Mountain; Nelly Keenan,
James Berry, son to Francis, Holst.; John Woods, M. River; Andrew
Anderson, son to John; Andrew Jenkins; Major Scott (dead), Mark Hat-
ton, Andrew Campbell, son to John, So. River; Andrew Wilson, reed-
maker; James Anderson, M. River; James Kelly (mason), John Cypher.
James Brown (dead), John Votaw, Wm. McNab, No. Mountain; Joseph
Right, M. River; James Armstrong, Holstein; Wm. Long, Warm Springs;
Jean Rush, Evan Griffith, son of Abel, M. River; James Bott, Alex. Reed,
Rockfish; Miss Betsey Hughes, Greenbrier; Henry Black, Dutchman; Hugh
Divier. No. River; John Smith, son of Daniel, dead; Gasper Carner, Black's
Gap: Daniel Meek, Calfpasture; Mary Cawfield, Jacob Kile, No. Mountain;
Wm. Rogers, B. M.; John Campbell, No. River; James Edmonson, taylor;
Chas. Syms, attorney at law; Nath. Bell Magruder, James Long, Mid.
River; Richard Aldeman, Jno. Ehrhard, laberer; James McManis, Am-
herst; Jno. Todd, attorney at law; Thos. Bird, labourer; Abraham Savage,
Thos. Jones, at the Office; Jacob Meckghew, Pr. Edward; Jno. Heany, Miss
Jenny Lewis, Thomas' daughter, Jno. Hughson, Mason.
Page 342. 29th August. 1777. Persons to whom Roger North's estate is
indebted Joseph Kinkead, Holstein; John Young, N. M., son to Hugh;
Wm. Hutchison, son to George, Greenbrier.
Page 344. Above estate settled by Catherine North, administratrix-
1776, November 7, paid James Clarke for freedom dues; 1777, May 29, paid
Alex. Brownlee, 11 months' storekeeping; August 28, paid Mr. Curry for
teaching (schooling) Phill.; September 30, paid Michael Bowyer for do;
1777, by cash from Capt. Hays for soldiers; September 2, by cash from
Wm. Rush, son to John; by cash from Jno. Jonett.
Page 350.-19th August, 1783. Recorded. Charles Donnally's appraise-
ment by Alex. Crawford, Andrew Sutlington, Ralph Laverty.
1
.
Ex-
167
544
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_076.txt
Mary, heir-at-
e: John Lewis,
1st June, 1750.
and heir-at-law
Donald. Teste!!
or of Samuel
: Hugh Richey
bert Black, of
well, deceased,
cutors to John
am.
Eton, 7th Sep-
1753.
ther and heir-
ields.
t-law of John
John, Gilbert
oh Ray, Wm.
his daughters
: James and
Mr. Buster,
Charles Hunt.
no. Hamilton.
th side of the
and Samuel
62 acres by
een Straight
ir-at-law of
ings of the
■December,
ore County,
uary, 1780.
onnely.
of land be-
John Hind,
es Dickey.
H. Smythe,
Page 540.-Teste: Isabella Lockhart, Elisabeth Smith.
Page 547.-Teste: Will Hamilton, James Culbertson, James Buchanan,
Hugh Brown, Jno. Lewis.
Last deed recorded, 19th August, 1783.
DEED BOOK No. 24.
First deed recorded, 21st September, 1784.
The dates of record are very irregular in this book.
Page 7-232 acres patented to William Thompson, 1st June, 1741.
Page 10.-18th March, 1783. Benjamin Bennett, of Rockbridge, son and
heir-at-law of Richard Bennett, deceased, to Rev. Archibald Scott, 245 acres
gained by Benjamin from Beverley by a suit in chancery in 1780 in Augusta
County Court, being the plantation where Wm. McKnab and Jacob Gabert
formerly lived.
Page 12. Plantaion in Beverley Manor on Christian's Creek, where
Jacob Grass lived.
Page 14. Part of tract on Jacksons River, patented William Jackson,
deceased. Teste: John Dean, Richard Elliote, James McLean.
Page 32. 20th March, 1783. Privy examination of Jane, wife of Robert
Armstrong, late of Augusta, deed to Benj. Tolman, before William Renick,
Wm. Ward, justices of Greenbrier.
Page 35. Teste: Samuel McKee, John Richey, Robert Connly, John
Huddle, Daniel Joseph.
Page 42. Patent to William Hogshead, deceased, 16th August, 1756,
and conveyed to Charles Stuart by David Hogshead, heir-at-law to said
William.
Page 45-3d May, 1783. Jeremiah Frame, son and heir-at-law of
William Frame, deceased, to Thomas Graham. Delivered: James Graham, ✓
son of Thomas, 14th April, 1787.
Page 48.-18th March, 1783. William Foster, Sr., to William Foster,
Jr., 250 acres on South River, part of 500 acres conveyed to William, Sr.,
by Joseph Poindexter and Elizabeth, in the General Court. Delivered:
Samuel Bell, 10th August, 1786.
Page 52-22d April, 1783.
son and heir to Robert Sawyers,
Page 55. 20th May, 1783. William Hinds and Ann,of Rockingham,
to Thomas Garvin. William conveys as heir-at-law of William Hinds, Sr.
Page 59. Survey dated 12th November, 1773. Patent dated 1st Feb-
ruary, 1781.
Robert Sayers, of Montgomery County,
deceased, to John Ramsey.
Page 62.-100 acres patented to William Jackson, 1st June, 1750, part
of 1100 acres.
Page 71.-Teste: William Lane, Josep Bell.
Page 74. Two patents to Edward Erwin, Sr., father of Edward Erwin,
Jr., 5th April, 1748, and March, 1747. Patent to Edward Erwin, Jr., 12th
May, 1770. Teste: Chas. Cameron, Thos. Hughart.
Patent to Bryan Kenney, 1st February, 1781.
Page 80
Page 86.
Patent to Samuel Turk, 7th August, 1761, on South River.
Page 90. Patent to Mark Swadley, deceased, 14th July, 1769, and de-
scended to Henry Swadley, of Rockingham, as son and heir, on a branch
567
545
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_077.txt
-GRAPHIC SCALE-MILES-
RUN
FALLING
WILLIAM
MCNABB
300 ACRES
1749
TREE
KRELL
The
Beverley Patent.
1736
including original grantees,
MORRIS
OFRIEL
CATRE
WM
ROBER
PAVIS 20A
1310 M.
1748
251A hig
24A
ROBE
CROCKETT
LE
ROST.
UNG
322
WILL
JAMES
YOUNG
400) 464
1740
in Orange & Augusta Counties,VaRY
1738-1815
compiled and drawn by
J.R.Hildebrand.
1954
1742
KAMPBELL T
356A. 1740 JACO
GEORGE
LOCKHART
321 A.
1//1742 HALDE
CREEK
mr
LANES
JVARCE
305 A1
VID
ROBERT
YOUNO
530 A
1749
WILLIANT
INTOCK
1749
THOMAS
**JACOB
236
GREAVER
PEERY
375 A. JAMES
6/1949
JOHN CAMPBELL
nee ANDRADAN 1
AIMS CLURE
-1006 2006
ENRY
1743
HOOD SON
287A.
BLACK
200 A
21
GEORGE
A
PEERY
220.5
325 4. 1749
1749
WILLIAM
MI NASS
1749
JAMES
331A
1141
JOHN
1745
320 A
JOHN
LYNN JR.
383. 1749/WILLIAM
✓ LOT 16 /LEDGERWOOD
HENDERSON
Sto
BAWELLY
1747
7410 p.
JR. 115
JAMES
M:CORKLI
370 A.
1747
1149
TRIMBLE MOSES
2004
BIGHAM
300A
302 A.
WILLIAN
1749
CATNEYS
KERR
12014.
1809
PATRICK
COOK
CALDA
NATAL
VILSON
JAN
BLACK
RIC
SCA.
H
PATRICA/GED. CALE
LOONSHULTZING A
TUNO YOU 218
MAR
THOMAS 09
KIRKPATR 1810
282 AC
JOHN
WILSON
JA. SPRING/WH 2604. 1730
DAVI
JAMES
LOCKHART
624 A
YOUEERY
JOHN
WILSON
mor
140A
/1751
ALEXANDERTOWAN
GSOA.
IS THOMPS
10414.
1760
BOTS
SLEY
373A
1612
BENCH
180
ENTON
MANOR
SMITH
LINE
INLEY FELIX
sal
GILBERT
WILLIAM
PRESTON
3204.
480 A.
1765
0.5654) 20
WILLIAM
WM. FLEMING
JAMES MILLER
120170
2000
WM. FLEMING
470A 5
MOORE
5174
1810
JOSHUA A
EVANS
297A.
1+06
ROBERT
KING
SAA:
1742
ROBERT
VOAGUE
172 A
ZA.
1139
ΠΟΥ
1165
DE UNISTO
COA,
ANIEL OSE
FRANCIS
CRAIO
LEWIS
WOODLAN
LOTNO
20.
1749
WILLIAM
BEVERDEY
1751 PLACE 2050A.
WILLER
MWANAN 216 A.
1747
MADIS
1748
SAMPSON
GEORGE
CREEK
JOHN LEWIS
2071 A.
MATTHERS WILLIAM
560 A.
JOHN
PRESTON
334 A.
1749
1738
JACOB
AEMIS
SA.
LEWIS
(1765)
135 A
ROST
JOHN
PICKENS
164 A
1740
DRA
WILCO
WILLIAN
RUMA
1741
CUE
1805
ROBERT
KATTERSON
331
1740
171
ANDERSON
JOHN
147 A.
MOFF
1739
SALE JOHN KERR
JOHN ROBERT
1939\
275A. 1752)
HENDERSON
57.1749
DERSO
CATHEY'S
LY
1760
100 A.
RODDERS
540
1749
160A.
PICKE
300
EXCOINDING
SAMUEL
MUTCHINS910
PECK
AUNELL
830
MOSES
PHETER 200
PELL
1747
3034.
747
JAMES
JAMES
400
1747
JOHN
COUNTIN
300
ALMER
THOMPSON 1740
\410A.
BA
140
WILLIAM
_CURRY
CEMAN JAMES
1904. KALDWELL
13604. 1745,
149 600 A.
JOSEPH
LAREW
1730
330 AC.
1147
51812
HENCERSON
THOMAS
1748
BUNTINE 174
DAVIE
320A.
1112
1741
www.
LEDERWONARTHUR
BORDEN
LINE
SAMUEL
NSCUTCHEON
600 A
1742
MECUTCHEON
JAMES JAMES 920A.
LUSK
Под
MOFFETT CR. 1949 ro
CHAS
/BERRY
326 A/
1152
JAMES
ROSEBORO
2404.
1741
550 A.
1740
DAVID
JBA.
/1739
KONNIKALEXANDER
/S15 A.
ARTWUR
MAMILION
270
1749
HAMILTON LEAPER
JAMES
JAMES MOODY
TANC
391A.
SIO
GLASS
236 A
THOMAS
1747
134 A.
1741
526 A.
COOK
MAAY
2264
1749
CAMPBELL
1739
559 A
amest
JAMES
1614 A
мног
1744
PATTON
NAMES
KAMERON
KENNEDY MILL
(OTT)
CEMETERY
TROMA
NO.
170
1753
STRONG
200
SAMUE
HAZARI
220A
1156
150
FRANCIS
BEATTY
1604
ROBIN
JOHN
MONTGOMERY
247% A.
74
HOUSTON
220 A
1748
SED
M.PELLOC
ROST.
AGUE
2014
1740'
SARAK
RAMSEY
3094. 1742
ROBERT
RAMSEY
340 A.
1147
1749
BRECKENBOGE
540 A.
1747
ROST 9/4
ALEVANDE
214
1747
PATRICK
HAYS
GOOD
HALFWAY 1741
PATEICA
A
TROED
DAVILL
FINLEY
MECLURE
444 A.
JAMES
FULTON
6372 A.
STUEL
550 A
JAMES
1742
1749
1739
POAR
HOUSTON BEGINNING
1747
POINT OF PORDEN
SURVEY
ROBERT
GEORGE
76ECKENDI
LEANCE
OHN
POAK
KAMU
270
1766
JOHN
JOSEPH MARTUR 474 #1
SIMITCHE
205A 1739
1741
DOVID
BUCHANAN
MORE
IBPA.
MUEL
BRADFORD
184 A.
1741
1749.
JOHN
MITCHELL
SAMUEL
DOAK
609 A
1747
647
1741
1546 A.
PATRICK CAMPBELL
JAMES
JOHN
1738
LYNN
538 A
1747
JOSEPH
1000 BCED
MSCORK
1740 JOHN EM: CULLOUGH
1749,
1749
210A, 1145
5/PATRICK ROBERT. WILLIAM
AMPBELL JOHN CHRISTIAN
1771
A.
THOS JOHN
BROIELDS
2254
1749
RANCIS
BEATTY.Com
1741.
202A
ROBERT
ROOKE
500 A.
654A. 1760
WILLIAM
CAMPBELL
1744
JAMES
ROBERTSON
395A.
1740
1739
ELDS JAMES
WILLIAM
ROBINSONE
1741
PATON
JOHN
DAVIDSON
17854.
CHRISTIAN
PATTO
432 A.
1749
JOSEPH MILLS
660 A.
1739
1738
BLACK
569 A
1738
WILLIAM
HENDERSON
1415 A
1739 RECORD DRANG
ROBERT
CUNNINGHAM
RISTIAN 482A. 1742
BOA.
ROBERT
MOFFETT
490 A.
1152
752
GABRIEL
433 A. 1749
CAVIS
1749
ANDREW
HUNTER
NEW 307 A.
S
STUART
MPSO
2003
WILLIAM
CUL
JOHN
413
JOHN SEAWRIGHT
RUTCHEN
174
UTCHINSON
297 A.
1740/
SAMUEL
HUGHES
WILLIAM
THOMPSON
247 4.
1794
DAVID
GEORGE
CALDWELL
405 A.
\1740 ROBERT
LARRUTH
ERS
✓ GIBSON
370 A. 1754
1740
REV.
BEAVER
JAMES
ANDERSON
1000*A
1736
A. T
momen
2374
1907
SAMUEL
MCCUNE 1742
SAML
CUNE
DAVID
MIS COMISTON
SARAH THO
ADAM
200
350 A.
1740
SEPH
GASPAR
COINER
2444
REALISIME
11812 HTBALD
STUART
500 A
JAMES
DAVIS
510 A.
1738
1751
JOSEPH
TEES
465 A.
1139
HOSPEDAVID
HENDERSON
580 A.
1749
JOHN
ROSE
1-100AL.
THOS
STUART
1353 A.
1749
JAMES PATTON
1356 A.
1749
EDWARD
1747
HALL
MORE BANKS
359A
1745
OGREAT
SPRING
130 A-
OPENT
210 A
JAMES
GILLETALE
108 A.
GILS
180
ANDREW
MECLURE
370 A.
1738
2004.
1753,
RU
567
BYRNE
CHA
414 A
1749
DANIEL
MONOHAN
300 A.
1738
BOILING
SPRING
GEORGE
HUME
375 A.
1739
GAY
SAMUEL
323 A.
GEORGE
ROBINSON
1832A.
1738
1739
SAWNILL
RON
HART
1749
400 A.
STEELE
GARBER
ISAAC
WHITE
PILSON
JAMES
CARR
473 A
1739
WILLIANT
SKILLERN
1635A.
1741
JAMES
ALEXANDER
819 A
530
174
TON
ERT
BLACK
CRAWFORD
PATN
AUREL
SWAMPS
350 A.
WORTH
1742
FORK
TURK RUN
JOSEPH
200 A/BLOODWORTH
4741 650 A.
1742.
ROBERT
TURK
1313 A
1739
RIVE
MALLURE
1742
ACK
RUN
LOVE
RUN
HANCOCK
PINE
1738
John DAVIDSON
785A
17397
SAMUEL
DAVIDSON
353 ACHOS
546
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_078.txt
TRIM
CAMMELLO
1746
ANDERSAY
Augusta Slove
1740
PICKENS
AGUER
LEWISZY
PRESTON-
་་་་--0%
STAUNTON
BROWN)
MCNABA
Yinkling
1740
PATION
BLACK-
DAVIDSON
BELL•
North Gun
(Bethel) 746
BUCHANAN R
CHRISHAN
•PAYFOLL
-LEGENO-
ONE OF FIRST JUSTICES.
- TINKLING SPRING OFFICERS
LATER BECAME PROMINENT
CHURCH AND COUNTY AFFAIR
RAMSEALE
South Atain (old Providence)
Highlan
STURE MIN.
Pendleton
NDO!
M
15/11
from Jos. A. Waddell: Annals of Augusta
County, Virginia (1726-1871), 2nd ed. 1902
Map of
Augusta County
Virginia.
Bridgewatex
1886.
reet
Scale of miles.
1
Stribling
Sps.
Mosch
(Parrasques
Jennings Cap
Sp. Hiti
village
Brakes Min
MeSidne
Augustas
Ck:
Miadle
Piedmont
June
NewHope
Deffield
Chachrille
R
Morent
Elllots K
Bethany
Care
507
COOLERY
STON
BORDEN
ONLYLE
SPATTYPLOM
TEES
WUNG
Burson
CAMPYL
wegs
Mall
New Monmout
5716
-GRAPHIC SCALE-
نننلننا
MILLS
(from: Howard Mcknight
Wilson: The Tinkling
Springs Headwater of
Freedom)
MAP
OF
BEVERLEY MANOR
ANO
BORDEN GRANT
SHOWING LOCATION OF
MEETING HOUSES
ESTABLISHED PRIOR TO 1746
ANO
ROADS ORDERED
BY ORANGE COUNTY COURT
PRIOR TO 1745
IN
THAT PART OF ORANGE COUNTY
CALLED AUGUSTA.
J.R.HILLORAND. OCL.
Note locations of Tinkling Spring and Timber Ridge.
·Meeting Houses
11
Lit Calls
Ches & Ohio By of
R.LV
MACISTERIAL DISTRICTS.
1. North River
2. Middle River
3. The Pastures
Hebron
Betty Bell
Clebe
Bummer
Tinkling
Spring
Barterbingk
Shemariah St.Johns
Yalehr
Bethel
Stiverts
6
Rockbridge
4. Beverly Manor
5. South River
6. Riverheads
South R
James
eRive
Area around Staunton
Cap
Bet
Rockfish Cap
(Th
Patton Farme:)
Shropshire
Howardsville Cap
Autographed. by
Jed. Hotchkiss, Top Eng
Stauntore Va
Oct. 1886
547
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_079.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME
When Born
Burton Clark McNABB
Brother of Walter Scott McNabb
Where Stephens Cty, Texas/Ioni Creek Homeplace
Where
May 30, 1897
Christened
When Died
November
1985
Where
Where
When Burled
When Married.
1917
Where
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (3) arc.
His Father Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
His Mother's Malden Name Rebecca Ann Turner
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Interview with family member. Stephens County, Texas
Census, 1910, Precinct # 6, ED 249, page 92, shows Clark McNabb with
one brother and onesister still at home with his mother as head of
family Mrs N.A. McNabb, kwith Jessie and Myrtle at home.
1900 Stephens Cty, Texas Census, Precinct # 6, ED 141, page 6, shows
Head of family Rebecca A. McNabb with 5 children at home-Lee, Jesse,
Ada, Myrtle and Burton C. (Burton Clark) Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
the father had passed away on March 27, 1900 just before the census
was taken.
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
When Bor
Christened.
When Died
Myrtle Ruth Smith
November 30,1896
Where
Where
May 30, 1972
Where
When Buried
Where
Olber Hub. (long)
Formale
Number (1) (2) olc..
Her Father
CHILDREN
(Arrange in order of birth)
882
Adam Munroe Smith- married October 26
Her Mother's Maiden Name Nancy Bargsley
WHEN BORN
Day Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Phice
State or
County
Country
F Verna Ellen
F Cordella Ruth
2
F Nancy Lucille
3
M Burton Clark, Jr.
M
5 Carson Ramsey
13 OCT 1918
Jan 1925
1928
5 NOV 1918.
5 OCT 1922
6
7
8
9
10
11
に
גון
112
WHEN DIED
DAT Munch
Date
Compiler
IT WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST - BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Date
Married
To G. M. Graham
Date
To M. Truesdell
Date
То
Date.
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To...
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
548
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_080.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME.
Clyde MCNABB
Where
When Born
Christened
When Died
When Burled
When Married
Other Wives (if any)
Where
Where
Where
Where
Number (1) (3) arc.
His Father Harry E. McNabb
His Mother's Maiden Name
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
Cloie (McNabb)
Where
When Bor
Where
Christened
When Died
When Buried
Olber Husb. (I any)
Number (1) (2) olc..
Her Father
n
Female
CHILDREN
(Arrange in order of birth)
Where
Where
5
°
10
Her Mother's Maiden Name
DATA OBTAINED FROM:
WHEN DIED
DAY
Manch
Date
They live in Websterly. Mo.
Rt. 1 Box 1045
Marshfield, Mo.
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Date'
To
Date
To
Date
То
Married
65706
pho
417/468-2887
Apparently, they line
on
the old ma Nabb
homestand of
James
Pinckney Mc Nolſ.
Fab 1814-
(Fab
-
June 1893)
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Place
State or
County
Country
Date.
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To..
Date
To
Date
11
12
To
Date
To
Date
Te
675
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_081.txt
BEAN, MIN OB B
100005-10
07-30 2001
D. M'G. DONDZON
PAGE 550 MISSING
посе
UCE2 210 2 TO 201
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_082.txt
Brother to Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
DATA OBTAINED FROM:
HUSBAND'S NAME
Albert Houston MCNABB
When Born
Where
Christened
When Died
When Burled
When Married
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (7) arc.
Where
Where
Where
Where
His Father
James Pinckney McNabb
His Mother's Maiden Name
Easter Flenniken Dearmond
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
When Bor
Christened
When Died
When Buried
Other Husb. (any)
Number (1) (2) 1c..
Her Father
Fernbe
CHILDREN
(Arrange in order of birth)
M
Harry E.
-
Where
Where
Where
Where
Her Mother's Maiden Name
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Place
WHEN BORN
Day
County
State or
Country
WHEN DIED
DAY
Month
Year
Date'
To
•Father of Clyde McNabb who married close. Lined
Webster Co. Mo.
m
Date
9
10
11
2
Date
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO,TEXAS 78643-2405
Married
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date
То
Date
То
Date
To..
Date
To
Date
To
12
-|
Date
To
Date
To
551
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_083.txt
Family Group Sheet. Form F3
non children and not death date, write
or additional
The Everton Publishers, PO Box 506. Iogan, Utah burial
date, prefix (Hur) live reverse side
USBAND'S NAME WALTER
MCNABB
Cousin to Walter Scott McNabb
When Born 15 Feb., 1873
Christened
When Died 2 Sept, 1959.
When Buried 3 Sept. 1959
When Married 3 March, "1901
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (2) etc.
His Father Theodore Washington McNabb
オ
Brother
f
Where Grayson County, Texas
Where
Where Lubbock, Texas.
Where Resthaven Cemetery; Lubbock, Tex.
Where Montague County, Texas
His Mother's Maiden Name Eliza Jane Kitchen
Nathaniel Armstrong <Nobb
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Callie TAYLOR
When Born 1 Oct., 1884
Christened,
When Died 10 April, 1973
When Buried
Other Husb. (if any)
Where Fannin County, Texas
Where
Where
Lubbock, Texas
WALTER MCNABB
(Husband's Full Name)
Callie TAYLOR
(Wife's Maiden Name)
This information obtained from
Family records
Cemetery records, Lubbock, Tex
Personal Interview
Montague County, Texas
_courthouse records
Where Resthaven Cemetery, Lubbock, Texas
Date Spring, 1982
Compiler velma Pletcher,
Address Norma Marcy
Number (1) (2) etc.
Her Father James Holmes Taylor
Male
CHILDREN
Female range in order of birth)
FL Mary Lee
F
2
Dessie Mae
M
3
Fred Esley
F
4 Bonnie Lucille
Her Mother's Maiden Name Emaline Elizabeth CREAMOR City
Lubbock
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
State or
Country
WHEN DIED
Month
Day
Year
25 Jan, 1902 Bowie, Montague Texas
18 Nov. 1903
Bowie, Montague Texas
22 Dec., 1905 Bowie, Montague Texas
25 Sept., 1909 Bowie, Montague Texas
M
5 Walter Loyd
16 Aug., 1912
Bowie, Montague Texas
4 April, 1915
F
6 Zelma Loyce
F. 7 Velma Joyce
F & Marjorie Oleta (Bit)
F
M
F
9 Norma Inez
10 Carroll Otis (Buster)
11 Betty Marie
F
Edna Doris
12
13 Marian Adelle
Married
State
Texas
Date 16 June, 1921
19690
15 Jan
W. J. Weaks
Date 4 Dec., 1921
To Tim Field
Datel Bernice Huntley
To 2.joyce Stevens 7/11/44
Date, 1.K.D Furr 12/23/1925
To 2. C. Gregory
Date 4 july, 1930
To Dorthy Sue MARTIN
Date 1 L.C. Clark 8/1932
Bowie, Montague Texas 10 Feb. 1953 To 2. V.J. Cesari 5/1/1945
4 April, 1915 Bowie Montague Texas
29 Jan., 1917 Bowie, Montague Texas
18 March, 1919 Bowie, Montague texas
2 Nov., 1921 CloseCity, Garza Texas
12 Aug, 1923 Clovis, Curry N.Mex.
23 Nov., 1925 Close City Garza Texas
26 jan 1929 Southland, Garza Texas
Date 2 July, 1935
To C.
Frank Fletcher
Date 8 dec., 1935
To A.E. (Gene) Draper
Date 29 Jan, 1938
To A. L. (AL) Marcy
Date 23 March, 1940
To
Maxine JUSTICE
Date 16 Dec.
1942
To Charles Estes
Date 1 July, 1942
To John Bell Fuller
Date 1 B.K. White8/12/1946
To 2. Carl Covalt
552
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_084.txt
BUSBAND'S NAME THEODORE WASHINGTON MCNABA
When Born 5 November, 1843
Christened
When Died 29 July, 1926
When Buried
When Married 1867/68
(2)C
Brother of Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
Where Bradley Co. Tenn.
Where
Where Montague Co. Texas
Where Starky Cemetery, east of Nocona Tx.
Where
Other Wives (if any) (2) Margaret L. (Maggie) b. Nov. 8, 1861; d. Mar. 29,1943 m. Apr.17,1884
Number (1) (2) etc.
His FatherJames Pickney McNabb
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME (1) Eliza Jane Kitchen
When Born Oct, 8, 1848.
Christened.
His Mother's Maiden Name Esther Flenniken
Dearmond
Where Iowa
THEODORE WASHINGTON MCNABB
(Husband's Full Name)
ELIZA JANE KITCHEN
(Wife's Maiden Name)
This information obtained from
1880 census, Montague
Co. Tx. 1900
census, Tx. Pct. 8.
Montague County Courthous
at Nocona, Tex. Records
When Died
Jan.14
1884
When Buried
Other Husb. (if any)
Number (1) (2) etc..
Her Father
Male
M
CHILDREN
(Arrange in order of birth)
1 Robert L.
Where
Where Montague County, Texas
Date
Where
Compiler.
Starky Cemetery east of Nocona, Tx.
Her Mother's Maiden Name
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
State or
Country
WHEN DIED
Day Month
Year
1868
M 2
Marion
1870
Tx.
Mo.
M 3
Ira
1871
MO.
Cousin to Jims
M 4
Walter
Walter, Lee, gostark 15 Feb. 1873
Grayson Texas
F 5 Menta
1874
Texas
Velma Fletcher
Address Norma Marey & others
City Lubbock,
Montague Co
8 Aug.1924
Tx
State
Married
Date March 15,1889
Το S.E. Bevers
Date March 18, 1891
Tx
To Nancy A. (Annie) EDGMON
Date
To Josie
Date 3 March, 1901
Lubbock 1959 To
Date
Callie Taylor
To Will Taylor
Date
April, 1881
August1885
F K
Joisse
M
7
James Thomas
M
Albert
8
2nd marriage
M9 Lewis
Texas
Stepson by 2nd. marriage
To
10
-M
Claud Mc Kinney
Jan. 1881
Texas
Date
To
11
Date
1878
Texas
To
Herring
Date
1879
Montague
Texas
To Loura Estelle Estes
Date
Texas
To
May Estes
Date
To Ruby
Date
Family Group Sheet. Form F3
al date is known on children and not death date, write burial
The verton Publishers, P.O. Box 506, Logan, Utah R4121
date, prefix (Hurl Use reverse side for additional informat
If burial dat
13
12
To
Date'
To
553
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_085.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME Warren Scott McNabb
When Born April 30, 1953
Christened
When Died
Great
Where
grand son of
Walter Scott McNobl
Albuquerque, New Mexico
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Family records and family interviews.
VD Pa
Where
Where
Where
When Burled
When Married
Number (1) (7) etc.
11-5-1977//divorced July 1979
Other Wives (if any) (2) Sandra Catherine Thompson
His Father Warren Neil McNabb
WIFE'S
MAIDEN NAMI Sandra Lynn Prilliman
When Bor
Christened
When Died
When Burled
Other Husb. (any)
Number (1) (2) 1c..
Her Father
CHILDREN
Where.
married 10-6-1984/divorced June 1986/Albu-NM
His Mother's Malden Name Geraldine McCurry
Where
Where
Where
Where
Her Mother's Maiden Name
WHEN BORN
✔
Fama le
(Arrange in order of birth)
Jay
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
F
1 Neala Aileen
2
3
5
6
10
11
12
28 Jan 1979
Albuquerque
Bernalillo.
Suate or
Country
New
Mexico
WHEN DIED
Day
Month
Date
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO,TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Date
Married
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date.
To
Date
To
Date
To.
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
554
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_086.txt
Grandson
Wolter
Scott McNabl
HUSBAND'S NAME Warren Neil McNabb
When Born January 7, 1934
Christened
When Died
When Buried
When Married August 1, 1952
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (3) olc.
His Father Warren Gilbert McNabb
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Geraldine McCurry
When Born January 1, 1935
Christened.
When Died
When Burled
Other Husb. (any)
Number (1) (2) olc.
Her Father Louis Odus McCurry
CHILDREN
Female
(Arrange in order of birth)
Where Spearman, Hansford County, Texas
Where
Where
Where
Where Albuquerque, Bernalillo Cty, New Mexico
His Mother's Maiden Name Ruth Pauline Prutsman
Where Ruston, Lincoln Cty, Louisana
Where
Where
Where
dden am
Her Mother's Maiden Name Jeffie Irma Howard
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Place
County
State or
Country
WHEN DIED
Day
New
Mexico
M
1 Warren Scott
30 Apr 1953
Albuquerque
Bernalillo.
F
2 Valerie Jeanne
28 Dec 1956
"
"
F
3 Beverly Neeve
12 May 1964
Miami, Dade
Florida
7
8
°
10
11
12
•scord.
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Family records and family interviews.
Manch
Date
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Married
Date 11-5-1977/div July 1979//(2) mar 10-6-1984/div June 1986 Sandra
To Sandra Lynn Prilliman
Date April 7, 1987
To (2) Andrew Zaniewski
Catherine Thompson, Albuquerque, NM
Valerie's children: Beverly E. Spencer Aug
// 15,1977 & Daniel W. Spencer July 30,1979
Date April 2, 1982 //Children: Joel Eric Forshee Feb 22,1983; Arika
To Donn Eric Forshee b. 10-24-1962/ Neeve Forshee
14,1985; Ashley Elis
Forshee June 26, 1988.
Date .
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To..
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_087.txt
HUSBAND'S NAME Warren Gilbert McNabb
When Born January 16, 1898
Christened
When Died September 4, 1975
When Buried
When Married May 18, 1930
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (3) arc.
His Father Walter Scott McNabb
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Ruth Pauline Prutsman
When Born September 11, 1906
Christened.
When Died
When Buried
Other Husb. (any)
Number (1) (2) DLC..
Wm. Elmer Prutsman
Walter Scott McNabb & Brother of Viola bing metall DAVIDSON
of
Where Greer County, Oklahoma
Where
Where Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Where
Where Clayton, New Mexico
His Mother's Maiden Name Birtie Sophia McNeill
Where Walla Walla, Washington
Where
Where
Where
Her Mother's Maiden Name Nancy J. Wright
Her Father
m
CHILDREN
Female (Arrange in order of birth)
WHEN BORN
Day
Monch
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
County
State or
Country
Spearman
F
1 Beverly Nan
9 Jan 1932 Hansford
Texas
Spearman
M
2 Warren Neil
7 Jan 1934
Hansford
Texas
DATA OBTAINED FROM: McNabb Family Bible, other family records & personal
interviews. WARREN GILBERT MENABB WAS AN UNCLE TO
WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON, whose MOTHER WAS Viola CRAIG
(MCNABB) DAVIDSON.
WHEN DIED
DAY Month
Date
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO,TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Date
Married
556
Nan's children by 1st H., Paul Duke & Ellen Duke who mar. Lazarus
To Harry Joseph Orr, 2nd H.
Date August 1, 1952
To
Date
Geraldine McCurry
3
9
10
11
12
To
Date.
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_088.txt
OKLAHOMA SOUTH OF THE CANADIAN
GREER COUNTY.
541
Because of an error of one degree in a survey made by United
States government surveyors in 1852, which made the one
hundredth meridian pass north through the confluence of the
North Fork and Red rivers, Texas, the Lone Star state laid claim
to the territory between these two rivers and its ownership was
undisputed for forty years. From 1852 until 1870 the province
of Greer was little more than a happy hunting ground for the
Kiowas and Comanches, but in 1870 white men, in defiance of
Indian hostility, began to filter into the interior in pursuit of
the last remnants of the great herds of bison. About 1880 the
cattlemen came over the border and the Kiowa, Comanche and
buffalo moved westward. In August, 1886, the country was
organized as a Texas county and christened with the name of
Greer, in honor of the lieutenant-governor of Texas.
When congress passed the Organic Act in 1890 organizing the
Territory of Oklahoma, it authorized proceedings against Texas
for the possession of Greer County, and in March, 1896, the
United States supreme court decided the land belonged to the
Territory of Oklahoma, opening the land to homestead entry in
1897. A flood of immigrants came up from Texas and one of
the last great American frontiers was no more. Greer County
has undergone three major surgical operations, having the Jack-
son County appendage and the Beckham County wing severed by
the Constitutional Convention in 1907 and Harmon County
lopped off in 1910. Fertile lands and a comparatively level sur-
face make the county ideal for agricultural purposes, three lines
of railroad, the Wichita Falls & Northwestern, the Kansas City,
Mexico & Orient and the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific furnish
excellent transportation facilities, and twelve hundred miles of
highways reach all the remoter sections of the county and bring
them within easy reach of the railways and the markets. More
than six hundred miles of telephone lines make communication
between all parts of the county relatively easy. As Oklahoma
counties go, Greer is not a large county, its area in acres being
four hundred and twelve thousand, one hundred and sixty, and
its population at the time of the federal census in 1920, fifteen
thousand, six hundred and sixty. Outside of the county seat,
Mangum, there is practically no manufacturing of any descrip-tion.
WARREN GILBERT Natl was born in Greer Conty in 22 Jan.
1898. Parents; Walter Scott & Bistic McNabb who lest inter
Cont
t
Jile.
on
dand in
Housfond cty, Texas in 18.99 to move
557
there in late 1900 after Viola Cray M: Habb was born Feb. 12, 1900, in Stephens ity, Texor
557
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_089.txt
WARREN GILBERT MENABB
"A fine
lasy
mon
to know but one
to understand." WEL
who
was not
558
558
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_090.txt
NOW WE KNOW ABOUT BABTISTE,
OR BABTIST, OR BABTIS, etc.
by Walter Craig Davidson,
I quote from page 146 of the HISTORY OF THE KUYKENDALL FAMILY,
by George Benson Kuykendall, M.D., Kilham Co., Portland, Oregon,
1919, as follows:
"The Van Auken family, who lived in the Machackemeck section of
the Minisink country, and across the Delaware below in Pennsyl-
vania, came from Marinus Van Aken and Pieternella des Prez. The
name Van Auken looks in the present form to be Dutch, but is most
surely of French origin. It came from the old city of Aachen in
France, commonly called Aux la Chapelle, from where the ancestors
of the family came. The Dutch Van must have been substituted for
the French equivalent, after the family went to the Esopus settle-
ments, where the inhabitants all spoke Dutch....The Van Aukens were
prominent people in the valley of the Hudson and Delaware."
HUMAN MIGRATORY CIRCUMSTANCES AND PATTERNS:
My wife, Doris Louise Buckner Davidson is a direct descendant of
'The Immigrant' John Buckner and his wife, Deborah Ferrers, who
married on 10 July 1661, in Buckinghamshire, England. They arrived
in Virginia prior to 4 July 1665. The direct lineage is; John
Richard, John 3,
3, John 4, John 5, James A., Stephen M., Emmett, and
Eugene Buckner, her father. John Buckner¹ died 10 Feb 1695 in Essex
Co. Virginia. He descended from Rychard Buckner, 1493-1548, who
lived in Cumnor, Berkshire, England. Rychard descended from Robert
Bucknore (Buckner) of London who died in 1365. AND by the time of
the Revolution, they were in Western North Carolina.
Doris Louise Buckner Davidson is also a direct descendant of 'The
Immigrant Jacob Luursen Van Kuykendall and his wife, Styntje
Douwes who married on the 16th of August 1638 in Amsterdam, Holland
and came to the Hudson River Valley in 1640, on the ship 'Princess'
owned by the East Indian Shipping Co., of Holland. The direct lineage
is: Jacob Luursen; Luur Jacobsen; Cornelius; Abraham, a Captain in
the Revolutionary War; Jacob; Jacob Richmond; and Louisa Jane
Kuykendall who married Stephen Morgan Buckner.
Then Emmett, son
of Stephen Morgan and Louisa Jane; then Eugene, son of Emmett, then
Doris Louise, dau of Eugene Buckner and his wife, Virginia Ella
Weddle. And by the time of the Revolution, they too were in Western
North Carolina.
My mother, Viola Craig McNabb Davidson, 12 Feb 1900-12 Feb 1996 was
a direct descendant of James Micknab (McNabb) who sailed from Downes,
England, 8 December 1651, on the "John & Sarah"--Master John Greene--
and landed in Boston, Mass., before 24 February 1652 and went to work
for the Lynn Iron Works. The direct lineage is; James; William, Sr.;
William, Jr.; Babtiste David; Nathaniel T.; James P.; Nathaniel A.;
Walter Scott McNabb who married Bertie Sophia McNeill and were the
parents of Viola Craig McNabb. Yes, by the time of the Revolution,
the McNabbs were in Western North Carolina; HOWEVER, before they
drifted down the Alleghenies to the Blue Ridge, they were in the
Minisink country of Monroe County, Penn. where William McNabb, Sr.,
MCNABB_SECTION_I-CHAPTER_II-VOL_II_page_091.txt
was a blacksmith and his son, William McNabb, Jr., was married to
Betty Aiken whose father was probably Gideon Van Aken, a member of
a well known French family of the Delaware River Valley. There is a
record of the marriage of Niclaes Westvaal to Sara Van Aken on
20 October 1712 at Kingston. Possibly a sister of Betty Aiken, whose
name, I believe, was not "Betty" but Elizabeth Van Aken, with "Betty"
being the familiar form of the proper name Elizabeth. Thus, when
Wm. McNabb, Jr., married Elizabeth Van Aken ca. 1720, it would not be
outside the Dutch naming pattern for them to name their first born son,
Babtist, a French name in honor of a French grandfather. The connection
established by this marriage and birth, is of no small import. For
the first time in some 48 years of McNabb family research, there is
now a link between William the father and Babtist the son. Before now
the only established link was based on rumor, habit and an absolute
void when it came to written, documented evidence.**The Draper files
established a documented relationship between William and his son,
James, but even the numerous references to Babtist McNabb contained
in Lyman Chalkley's official records, fail to mention any, and I mean,
any, relationship between William and Babtist. ALSO, we can now put to
rest, the endless verbal expressions of bafflement as to the origin
of what appeared to be a name connected with a religious body.
Of further importance, this linkage opens a whole new geographical
area for McNabb family research. Containing, as it does, the legal
and religious records dating back to the early 1600's, perhaps we
can more fully and completely document the Clan members and activities.
For the Kuykendalls, the Van Akens and the MCNABBS, the melting pot
syndrome that is the essence of America, began exceedingly early.
**
I believe the prepondance of evidence indicates that, as stated
in an earlier essay, Babtist had no son named William, thus the
William McNabb who witnessed Babtist's will was most certain to
have been Babtist's father.
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_001.txt
MENEILL
Section I
CHAPTER III
ME NEILL
و که کو
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_002.txt
SBAND'S NAME DANIEL SYLVESTER MCNEILL
When Born
Christened
When Died
April 21, 1845
March 29, 1929
Where Black River, Saint John County, East
Simonds Parish, New Brunswick, Canada
Where Palo Pinto County, Texas
Where
DATA OBTAINED FROM: Family records and letters. Daniel S. McNeill left
home at the age of 14 to work his way down the East Coast of the US
on boats. His photograph taken in New York City, shows a well dressed,
confident young man. He moved to Missouri in the 1860's where he married
Sarah E. McFarland. They left Warrensburg, Mo. by wagon train for Texas,
When Burled Brad Cemetery, Palo Pinto Cty TXwhere 24 miles west of Mineral Wells on Hwy 180. // circa 1871-2. In the wagon train with them was John Bell, Bob Houx (a
When Married September 5, 1869
uber (1) (2) arc.
Where Warrensburg, Johnson Cty, Missouri
(y) 2nd Mary Jane Farmer-Bedford-Williams in 1887, in Palo Pinto Cty, Texas
His Father Hugh McNeill, New Brun. Canada His Mother's Maiden Name Sophia Boyle, NB, Canada
I'S MAIDEN NAMI Sarah E. McFarland
When Bor
Christened,
When Died
January 6, 1845
December 6, 1885
Where Warrensburg, Johnson Cty, Missouri
Palo Pinto County, Texas
Where
Where
cousin of Uncle Jakie Houx) and Johnny McNeil (no relation). They
settled in Palo Pinto County, Texas and never lived anywhere else. He wa
elected Justice of the Peace in 1905. The story is told in the family
that when Daniel S. received word from New Brunswick, Canada that his
older brother, Hugh², had passed away on January 6, 1929, Daniel S.,
age 83, just walked into his bedroom to lie down and never got up again.
He said that he felt that he simply had lived long enough. He had kept
in close touch with his brothers and sisters by mail and had over the
years made several trips to the East to visit them.
Date MARY M. BEDFORD, SAINT JOHN, NB
When Burled Brad Cemetery, Palo Pinto Cty, TX where 24 miles west of Mineral Wells on Hwy 180 AND
Other test. (Won)
mber (1) (2) OLC..
Her Father Alexander McFarland fr Tenn.
CHILDREN
14.
(Arrays in order of birth)
Her Mother's Malden Name Margaret ??fr Virginia
WHEN BORN
D
Monu
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Puce
Covery
State of
Country
WHEN DIEC
D., 334
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON .
Address 1309 EAST - BROWN LANE
City LLANO,TEXAS 78643-2405
Year
Married
M 1 Leonidas (Lee)
F
2
Rose Ella (Rosa)
F Anne Maude
1874 Palo Pinto Cty.
1875
"
Texas
"
"
1878
"
Hitchita
Okla.
Date
To
Date
1954
Spearman,TX
"
"
Nov 23,1969
"
1893
ToWm G. Ramsey b 1868 d 1971
Date Mar 1st Mr. Williams
To 2nd Henry Jones
Date Dec 15,1896-Caddo, Tex
T. Walter Scott McNabb
PALD PINTO, TX Emma b.7-24-1882 d. Apr 7,1959
560
Their don. 6. Feb 12, 1900, Stephons Co. Tx, named
Viola CRAIG MENNBB m. S. J. DAVIDSON, June 1917
DALMART, TX, Thinson WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSEN 6.7 MAR 1920
Nov 8, 1954 ToEmma Elizabeth Littlepage M. Aug 24, 1904
Date
To Mr. Harris of Argyle, Tex
Date
1905 (age 14)
ToEnnis Moore-Glendale Ariz
F
4
Birtie Sophia
May 6,1880
M
Robert HUGH
Nov 14, 1883
"
BRAD
THE ABOVE ARE SARAH'S CHILDREN WITH DANIEL
F
Eula
Nov
1888
"
"
F
7 Elma
June
1891
"
"
M
Sylvester
March
1893
"
"
1908
The three above are Mary Jane's children with Daniel
°
10
MaryJane had two daughters when she and Daniel married in 1887.
Louella Bedford married Oscar Henson and
Bell Williams married Baine Ford
11
בון
Date
То
Date
To
Date
То
Date
To
Date
To
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_003.txt
BOOK G
Johnson County
PAGE 229
Racords,
WARRENSBURG,
Missouri
64093
the evely certify that man
Daniel Mcneill (
Sarah Mc Farland
unite in marriage on the 5"
JH: Houx
Mains farah Melay of Sep 1869 Mer Daniel Mo Neill Hind
Frited Sept 20
Sept-25" 1869
3
Te now der
who, was
Daughter of Alexander Mc Farland born in Tenn in 1805
561
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_004.txt
on 25 December
On
Mormon Church Records; Canada Census & United States Census data re McNeill Family
William McNeill and his wife Christy Cameron, Christened their son, Hugh McNeill,
1805 on the Isle of Tiree (Tyree), Argyll, Scotland. Mormon Church Archives, Salt Lake City; Oct.
1981, British Isles, Scotland, page 800,002; Batch 7102110%; Serial Sheet 20.
Hugh McNeill arrived in E. Simonds Parish, Saint John County, New Brunswick, Canada in 1825.
or Ireland, who had arrived in Canada
8 August 1837, he married Sophia Boyle, born 1817 in Scotland
in 1836. The 1851 Saint John County, New Brunswick, Canada Census Vol II (L-2) Saint John Regional
Library R 312.9715 v. 2-c. 1 shows McNeill p. 33 Simonds, as follows: Hugh, age 48; Sophia, wife, 34;
Margaret, D, 13; Jane, D, 11; Mary Ann, D, 10; Hugh, S, 8; Daniel (Sylvester) S, 6; Sophia, D, 4;
Sarah, D, 2; Ann, D, 7m. (Daniel Sylvester McNeill was born April 21,1845 and died March 29, 1929 in
Palo Pinto Cty., Texas.) //Daniel Sylvester McNeill 1880 Palo Pinto Cty Texas Census, Volu 26,
ED 155 Sheet (page) 9, Line 17, Justice Prec 1, age 33, born New Brunswick, and Sarah E. (McFarland).
wife, age 33, born Missouri; Leonidas (Lee) son, age 6, born Texas; Rose Ella, daughter, age 4,
born Texas; Anne Maude, daughter, age 2, born Texas; Birtie (Sophia) daughter, age 1/12, born Texas.
5 Sept 1869)//Daniel Sylvester
(Daniel & Sarah E. McFarland were married in Warrensburg, Missouri
McNeill 53, 1900 Palo Pinto Cty. Texas Census, Justice Prec 7, Vol. 87, ED-119, Sheet (page) 17,
line 45, and Mary J. 46, wife born Arkansas; Robert, son, age 17, born Texas in 1883 (was Sarah E.'s
child. Sarah died December 6, 1885--Daniel re-married in 1887) Eula, daughter, age 11, born Texas;
Elma, dau., age 8, born Texas; Sylvester, son, age 7, born Texas (Both Daniel S. & Sarah E. are
buried in Brad Cementery in Palo Pinto Cty., Texas)//Daniel Sylvester McNeill age 63, 1910 Palo
Pinto Cty. Texas Census, Justice Prec 7, ED-192, Sheet (page) 176, & Mary J. wife, age 58; Moore,
Moore when she was
Ennis, son-in-law, age 26%; Moore, Elma E. age 19, daughter, (married Ennis C.
14. They were helping Daniel S. on the farm--later, after 1910, they moved to Glendale, Arizona.)
1850 Census, Johnson County, Missouri, page 41, Family # 587, ALEXANDER MCFARLAN (D), age 45,
born in Tenn.; Margaret, age 46, his wife, born in Virginia; son William R., age 7, born in
Missouri; Sarah E., age 3, daughter, born in Missouri (Sarah E. married Daniel Sylvester
McNeill on September 5, 1869); John Y., age 16, son, born in Missouri. Family living in or
near Warrensburg, where Sarah E. and Daniel S. married.
562
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_005.txt
DANIEL SYLVESTER MCNEILL--circa 1863--New York City, NY
April 1845 to March 1929
C
DANIEL SYLVESTER MCNEILL--circa 1890 --Father of BIRTIE SOPHIA
April 1845 to March 1929
(MCNEILL) MCNABB
Born in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada
563
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_006.txt
1850 Johnson County, Missouri Cansus, paga 41
Johnson County continued:
575 LITTREL continued:
William R.
Amanda M.
Robert S.
6 M Mo.
4 F Mo.
1 M Mo.
576 NELSON: Nancy B.
47 F Tenn.
Sarah J.
19 F Ala.
John
17 M
Ala.
George
15 M
Ala.
William
13
M
Ala.
Moderah A.
7 F
Mc.
577 TAYLOR:
Zachariah M.
Louisa
26 M
19 F
Tenn.
Mo.
Alexander McFarland
583 JOHNSTON continued:
John R.
David W.
Thomas J.
Barnet
Sarah C.
19 M Tenn.
17 M Tenn.
15 M Tenn.
12 M
Tenn.
10 F
Tenn.
Zachariah
Stephen
James W.
8
M
Miss.
5
M
Miss.
2 M
Mo.
584 CARPENTER: Wilson D.56 M
Va.
Elizabeth
42 F
Ky.
William F.
20 M Ky.
Frances M.
14
F. Ky.
Sidney W.
Sarah C.
12 M Mo.
578 HOGAN: Wilkerson
43 M Ky.
Mary
Samuel
Elizabeth
Sarah J.
13
David
11
William H.
M. Frances
Mary E.
Martha W.
America M.
22 3085m-awnma
Richard
John
40 F Ky.
18 M Mo.
585 CARPENTER:
8 F Mo.
3 M Mo.
5/12 M Mo.
Thomas N.25 M Ky.
15 F Mo.
Sarah M.
F Mo.
Tho. W. H.
19 F NC
3/12 M Mo.
M Mo.
586 ANDERSON. John
9
M Mo.
F Mo.
Mary
Rebecca
F Mo.
Thomas
F Mo.
Hannah
1 F Mo.
587 McFAKLAN:D Alexander 45 M
579
GROVER: David
Hannah M.
Elizabeth M.
George W.
Martha
James BROWN_
580 HARRIS:
Samuel J.
Catharine M.
Wn. Laf.
Jasper G.
581 THOMPSON:
Mary
32~222 223 22
35 M Pa.
Margaret
22 F Tenn.
William R.
6002 r.
66 M NC
F
Va.
30 F Tenn.
21 M
Tenn.
17 F
Tenn.
Tenn.
46
F
Va.
7 M
Mo.
2 F Mo.
Sarah E.
3 F
Mo,
3/12 M Mo.
20 F Mo.
25 M Tenn.
"
34 M Tenn.
"
"
26 F Mo.
John Y.
Addison VANANDALE 21 M
Minard
William HARRISON 21 M
Lucinda
Harvey
VANAusdol 16 M
Mo.
Va.
12 M
Ohio
Alm.
19 F
6/12 M
Va.
Mo.
3 M Mo.
588 KING:
Antone L.
34 M
Tenn.
2 M Mo.
Marilda
23 F
Tenn.
William
7 M Mo.
Wallace 62 M Tenn.
58 F Tenn.
John
5 M
Mo.
Nancy
3 F
Mo.
Jane
31 F Mo.
Julia
28
589 KING: Robert L.
40 M
Tenn.
Samuel
22 M
F Mo.
Mo.
Margaret
39 F Tenn.
Elisabeth
James W.
16 M
17 F
Tenn
Mo.
Edmund
13 M
Tenn.
582 MCMAHAN:
JoAnne
Unity J.
11 F
Tenn.
35 F
Tenn.
William W.
9 M Mo.
C. G. S.
3 M
Mo.
Louisa A.
7 F Mo.
Samuel B.
1
M
Mo.
Martha E.
4 F Mo.
"
Sarah F.
1 F Mo.
583 JOHNSTON: William 43
M Tenn.
Nancy
43 F Ga.
41
John MARR, Jr.
Susan "
23 M Mo.
18 F
Tenn.
Cornelia A. "
1
F
Mo.
564
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_007.txt
After...
5 days, return to
Graford
TEXAS.
CENTS
opened by mistake
Mrs. W. S. MEDI
Spearma
Circa 1920 1925
-
Letter from D. S. m. Meill to
his doughter, Bertie Sophia
(McNeill) McNabb
565
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_008.txt
Mrs McNall
ahresear
Bart I hear bein Maton
in beftioribed an
west to pick collo and
I went tip to ranges on
up
Stard the utilill Choum
chickers
Then sold my
566
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_009.txt
9
and came up here din
was taken down will
Bets Wold me the DA
That Dink woulssive be allo
walk again Dink on
to k ll D Wharbast
hear from then for
Lees wife is dead he work
Bod a fin day aas cance
of stormich was the caus
567
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_010.txt
This leave us all well
When Iville Start itt passar
568
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_011.txt
HUSBAND'S
When Born
Christened
NAME
HUGH MCNEILL
When Died After 1881 Canada census at
Arrived in Canada in 1825
1803
December 25, 1905
Gardner's Creek-buried at--
When Married August 8, 1837
Where
Where
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (3) olc.
His Father William McNeill
Where Isle of Tyree, Argyll, Scotland
Where Isle of Tyree, Argyll, Scotland
Where Black River, E. Simonds Parish, St.John,
New Brunswick, Canada St Patricks Cem.
Saint John, N.B., Canada St Malachys
Church
His Mother's Malden Name Christy Cameron'
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME Sophia Boyle (Came to Canada in 1836, from Ireland)
When Born
Christened
1817
When Died After 1881 Canada census
When Buried
Olber Husb. (I any)
Number (1) (2) DLC.
Her Father
CHILDREN
emale (Arrange in order of birth)
Where
Where
Where
Where Black River, E. Simonds Parish, Saint
John, New Brunswick, Canada Saint
Monch
Her Mother's Maiden Name
WHEN BORN
Day
Year
WHERE BORN
Town or Place
Salmon River-Gardners Creek-or-- Black River, St John,
DATA OBTAINED FROM: R.C. Church archives, 1851-61-71-81 Canada Census
Records; Mormon Church Archives, Salt Lake City; Oct 1981, British
Isles, Scotland, page 800,002; Batch 7102110; Serial Sheet 20. The 1851
Saint John County, New Brunswick, Canada Census Vol II (L-Z) Saint
John Regional Library R 312.9715 v. 2-c. 1, shows McNeill p. 33 Simonds E.,
Hugh with wife, Sophia, and family listed by name and age.
Black River lore has it that Sophia carried Hugh 2 the 20 miles to town to
have him baptised and then carried him home again. Baptism was probably
at St. Peters. Hugh was an early farmer. According to the Saint John
"Globe" Hugh was the first settler to bring in horses and wagons to the
area, to replace the oxen then in use. From "Globe" newspaper:
"Hugh and Sophia Boyle McNeill married 8 August 1837
Hugh age 34 Sophia age 20
Comp: Mary M.. Bedford, St. John, NB
Compiler WALTER CRAIG DAVIDSON
'Address 1309 EAST BROWN LANE
City LLANO, TEXAS 78643-2405
Patricks Cem.
WHEN DIED
Year
Month
Married
Witnesses: Michael Friel, Peter Gilligan
and Miss Ann Daily"
Hugh had a brother Malcolm McNeill who
married Catherine Cameron, probably a
relative of Hugh's wife, Christy
Cameron. On February 9, 1827, Malcolm &
Catherine McNeill christened their son,
Hugh. This was some two years after Hugh1
had arrived in Canada.
F
'
Margaret
F
2
Jane
F
3
Mary Ann
S
4
Hugh 2
Xs
5 Daniel Sylvester
F
6
Sophia
F
Sarah
7
F
8
Ann
M
Laughlin
F
10 Alice
M
11 James
12
13
State or
County Country
DAY
Date
1838 E. Simonds Parish, Canada 30 June1900
То
Date
"
1840
To
Date
16 Oct 1841
"
To
4 July 1843
"
Black River New Br.
6 Jan 1929
April 21,1845
Date 2nd Margaret Dowd
Tol. Margaret Kelly
Died in Palo Pinto Cty, Tex DateSept. 5,1869-Warrensburg, Mo.
"Buried Brad Cem. Mar 29,1929 To Sarah E. McFarland
Date Brookline, Mass
"
1847
"
1 May
1849.
"
1850
"
1859
To
Hazleton
Date
То
John Duffy
Date
То
Date Little River, St John NB
ToMargaret McLaughlin...
Date
1853
"
To
Records show that James McNeill married on
6 Nov 1862-Probably is not a son but a nephew
of Hugh and Sophia McNeill.
Date Eastport, Maine
То
Mary E. Burns
Date
To
Date
To
569
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_012.txt
1515: Eat.
ཝ་
Free wold perimeter
to 7:31 Sel
Sir Hake
in
Bank t
marked: MeL
fit aired heat.
Thenger
*
SA by Old Minnitie
:15
sola
uth 15: East.
62.50
93.1
Cz
гла
Reed
Daniel
~ 16 Chains wide
657
by.
The
by the savin
5:30
yeh Bir
ལ་ས།
Base
In
Line
run by
$3 passed.
fr in 184870377
buty & Whitney
andish Reed
Emarson linck,
Lot No:30 West
28 Daniel Dewar
Bobertes
"Bounded-
No.28
Hugh
އ
to Emmers and Creets.
Mr. Niel 20/2
fo.
HUGH MCNEILL (from Tyrees
EAST SIMONDS
1. PARISH, SAINT JOHN COUNTY,
NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA
218 acres.
Dailey 100 acres.
бог
Gra
j
Bret Birch
пубе
ated James Peters Jun
Seclee
2.345.64 the.
داند
570
William Sin
tranh
of 300
acre.
CIRCA 1830
with 10
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_013.txt
NAME
WILLIAM MCNEILL
Where
Where
Where
Where
Where
HUSBAND'S
When Born
Christened
When Died _
When Buried
When Married
Other Wives (if any)
Number (1) (3) olc.
His Father
His Mother's Malden Name
WIFE'S MAIDEN NAME
Christy Cameron
When Born
Where
Christened
Where
When Died
When Buried
Other Husb. (I any)
Number (1) (2) etc..
Her Father
Female
CHILDREN
(Arrange in order of birth)
Where
Where
M
1 Hugh
2
3
4
5
6
7
°
10
11
Her Mother's Maiden Name
DATA OBTAINED FROM:
Morman Church Archives, Salt Lake City; Oct 1981--
British Isles, Scotland, page 800,002, Batch 7102110; Serial Sheet 20.
Shows William McNeill and his wife Christy Cameron McNeill had their
son, Hugh, christened on December 25, 1805 on the Isle of Tyree,
Argyllshire, Scotland.
County
Sale or
Country
Scot-
land
WHEN DIED
Day
Date
1988
Compiler Mary M. Bedford
Address 87 Broadview Ave. E2L 125
City Saint John, New Brunswick Canada
Month
Year
4/61881
Married
Date 8 Aug 1837
WHEN BORN
Day
Month
Year
WHERE BORN
Town of Place
1803
Isle of Tyree
To
SOPHIA BOYLE
Date
Το
Date
Το
Date
To
Date
To
Date
To
Date
То
Date
То
Date
To..
Date
To
Date
To
Date
12
13
To
Date
To
571
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_014.txt
LULUNSAT AND ORONSAT
ANGUS MC NEILL WH 01 NOV1828 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ORONSAY
C300CT183 ARGYLL, COLONSAT AND ORONSAY
LAUCHLAN MC NEIL/EFFIE MC NEILL
101170630220
10DEC 19710K 7021710 67
10DEC 19710K 7021710 30
27MAT1972LA 20JUN 1972LA 23MAT1973 LA 7133424
PCOSJAN1839 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ORONSAY
DON MC NEILL/PEGGY MC LUGASH
JOHN MC NEILL/HESTER CURRIE C06 JUN 1845 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ORONSAT
A ADULT CHRISTENING
KNOWN CHILD
B-BIRTH
M. MARRIAGE
23
07APR19710K 19MAT19710K 03 JUN 19710K 7021710
☐ 07APR 19710K 18MAT19710K 03JUN19710K 7021710
C-CHRISTENING D DEATH OR BURIAL F BIRTH OR CHRISTENING OF FIRST
W will
ALL OTHERS MISCELLANEOUS
N⚫CENSUS
MC NEILL, HESTER
MC NEILL, HESTER
MC NEILL, HESTER
Σ
EVALUATED ENTRY
16
REGIONI BRITISH ISLES
NAME
SEX-M MALE
COUNTRY:
SCOTLAND
FEMALE H HUSBAND/W WIFE
MC NEIL, MESTER FATHER/MOTHER OR SPOUSE
HC NEILL, HESTER
MC NEILL, MESTER
MCNEILL, MESTER C.
AS OF OCT 1981
EVENT
COUNTY, TOWN, PARISH
DATE
JAMES BELL MONOVILS ARGYLL, COLONSAT AND ORONSAT
HECTOR BUE MM30JUN1869 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ORONSAY
1030CT1865 ARGYLL, JURA
MURDOCH MCNEILL/CATHERINE MCNEILL
MC NEILL, HESTER MARY
ALEXR. MC NEILL/ANNE ELIZABETH CARSTAIRS
MC NEILL, HESTER MARY
MALCOLM MC NEILL/CLARA ELISABETH BUCHANAN
MCNEILL, NEW
MC NIEL, HONORA
RORY MC MIEL/CATHERINE GALACHAR
RODERICK HE WILL/CATHERINE GALACHAR
C12JAN1844 ARGYLL, JURA PARISH
715NOV1863 MIDLOTHIAN, EDINBURGH
.
216
PAGE
$
SERIAL
BATCH
SHEET
28APR1972LA 7023110 78
28APR1972LA 7023110 76
10SEP1980PY OSDEC 1980PV 16 JAN 1981PV C115399 0471
20MAR19710K 24 APR 19710K 25MAT19710K 702011
CLEARED
CLEARED
33
CLEARED C11685216512
CLEARED M110772 0021
09DEC 197856 01MAR197956 07MAR197956 011108 0683
D9DEC 197856 01MAR197956 07MAR197956 111081 0829
KATHRIN ROT NN14 JUN1676 ROSS AND CROMARTY,LOGIE-EASTER
07APR1865 INVERNESS,BARRA
02MAY1867 INVERNESS,BARRA
MC20NOV1698 PERTH, MUTHILL, EPISCOPAL CHURCH
26 AUG 1960 15DEC 19601F 03NOV19611
WILLAM MCNEIL/MC23MAR1769 CAITHNESS, REAT
CLEARED
NEIL MC HEIL/AGNES MC CALLUM MB 250CT1772 LANARK, GLASGOW
CLEARED
CLEARED
09 NOV1974OK 30NOV1974CK 07 JAN 1975ON
CUMINE MC NIEL/MARY PATON MC28MAR1773 ATR, KILMARNOCK
13MAR197506 15 APR 197506 14 JUN 197506
WILLIAM HENTEL/130BEL SINCLAIR H09781777 NATRN, CANDOR
PATRICK MC MIEL/CATHARIN MC GRIGAR
MC NEEL, HONORA
MC NIEL, HUGH
MCNEIL, HUGH
MC NEIL, HUGH
MC NIEL, HUGH
HENTEL, HUGH
MC NEIL, HUGH
MC NIEL, HUGH
CHRISTIAN CAMPBELL M
HUGH AC NIEL/MARGARET MC GILCHRIST
ALEXR. MC NIEL/MI
MC NIEL, MUGH
MC NIEL HUGH
HC NEIL HUGH
MCNEIL, HUGH
MC NEILL, HUGH
MC HEIL, HUGH
HE HEIL, HUGH
MCNIEL, HUGH
MC NEIL, MUGH
MC MIEL, HUGH
MC NEIL, MUGH
HAC HEIL, HUGH
MC NEIL, MUGH
MC NEILL, HUGH
MC NEILL, HUGH
MC NEIL HUGH
HE HEIL, HUGH
1777 ARGYLL, KILNINIAN
STIRLING, CLACHAN OF
1788 ARGYLL, TYREE
790 ARGYLL TYREE
CLEARED
CAMPSIE
CLEARED
CLEARED
14 APR 1971MT
C102051 0096
110402 1186
7408009 58
26
222 1615
$229 58
$3
10JUN197236 27JUN197236 13 JUL 197256 7201434
OBMAT1948 19APR 19493L 03DEC 19753L C100051 1068
08MAT1948 10 JUN 19486 030EC19755L (100051 1360
05NOV196417 27FEB
CLEARED
DOND. MC MIEL/MC
HECTOR ME NEIL ANN HE LEAN MC18701793 ARGYLL NORTH KNAPDALE ROJUNT966
ANNE ROSE HM 10MAT 1799 HAIRN, ARDCLACH
MC 12SEP1800 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ONOMSAY
RODRICK MC NEILL/PEGY MC GRITOR
.
MC 230EC1805 ARGYLL, TYREE
WILLIAM MC NEIL/CHRISTY CAMERON
PATRICK ME NEILLORA MC LEAN MONATO ARGYLL, KILINCHEN
JOHN MCHIEL/ELSPAT FRASER MC27MAR1809 INVERNESS, INVERNESS
ARCHIBALD MC MEIL/MART MC LEAN MC08SEP1809 ARGYLL,KILNINIAN
MARY KENNEDY MM11MAR1812 ARGYLL, TYREE
MC020CT1813 ARGYLL, TYREE
ARCHIBALD MC NETL/CHRISTY LAMONT
HECTOR MAC HEILPATERSON
M111205 0066
23MAR19710K 09 JUL 19710K 28 JUL 19716K 7020119 "
23SEP1971L6 0BJAN1972LG 20MAR1972L6 7102110 20
ROJAN197130 10MART7156 21APR1975 7012005 74
CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED C11098411151
24SEP1970LG 037ED1971L6 04MAR 1971L 7005126 45
24 JUN19760G M100051 0700
23SEP 1971LG 08JAN1972L6 20MAR1972L 7102110 "
29NOVISTS ARGYLL, NORTH KNAPDALE 160CT1971LA 29FEB1972LA 24MAY 1972LA 7029512
MARY MAC MILLAN H 26 AUG 1817 ARGYLL, CAMPBELTOWN
DUNCAN MC NEILL/MART BELL COSEP 1817 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ORONSAT
14MAT197606 7524618
ROMAR1971LA 09SEP 1971LA 13APR1972LA
PLORY MC NEILL HM23 AUG 1820 ARGYLL, COLONSAY AND ORONSAY
JEAN BLACKWOOD MM01P
10DEC 19710K 7021710
RENFREW PAISLEY ABBEY (PAISLEY)
06FEB197316
0971827 ARGYLL, TYREE
DEJAN 1972LA 01AP1972LA 09FEB1973LA
17 JUN 1963L6
OSDEC
MALCOLM MC NEIL/CATHERINE CAMERON
MCNEIL HUGH
MC MIEL, HUGH
MC MIEL, HUGH
MC NIEL HUGH
HAT NEILL, HUGH
ANN MCQUIRE N
1829 BUTE,KILBRIDE
PETER MC MIEL/HENNY BEATON MC10MAT1829 ARGYLL, NORTH KNAPDALE 12 JUN 1971LA 03NOV1971LA 20JUN1972LA
ANNE MC KINLAY MM01SEP 1829 ARGYLL KILLEAN
MARION WALKER MM06APR 1833 FIFE, DUNFERMLINE
MC 033EF1837 ARGYLL, TREE
DONALD MAC HEILL/CATHERINE CAMPBELL
MC MIELL, MUGH HUGH MC NIELL/JEAN MC KINLAY MC 06 JUL 1842 ARGYLL, KILLEAN
NEIL MC NEIL/HANNAH WILSON MB 110CT1844 LANARK, RUTHERGLEM
SARAN STEWART HM JAN1846 LANARK, GORBALS
NC07FEB1847 ARGYLL, TYREE
MC NEIL HUGH
MCNEIL, HUGH
MC NEIL HUGH
ARCHIBALD HE NEILLORA HAC LEAN
ALEXR. MC NIEL/ANN MC DONALD MC12SEP1847 ARGYLL, TYREE
MC 11MAR1831 INVERNESS, BRACADALE
MC 16APR1854 ARGYLL, TYREE
MC MIEL, HUGH
MAC NIEL, HUGH
MAC NEILL, HUGH
NORMAN MAC MIEL/MARION MACDONALD
Σ
DONALD MAC NEILL/CATHERINE CAMPBELL
EVALUATED ENTRY
A = ADULT CHRISTENING
KNOWN CHILD
64
3
64
1108
87
7
22JAN1
10654
DJAN1972LA 01APR1972LA 09FEB197.
75
03AUG1974LD 21SEP1974LD 310CT1974LD 400790 87
22JUL 1972LA 18NOV1972LA 18MAT1973LA
68
21 NOV1960SL A457663 3029
08JAN1972LA 01APR1972LA 09FEB1973LA 7113914 73
hOOCT1975 SL 17NOV19753L
CLEARED
CLEARED
11 DEC 1975SL (100051 9370
CLEARED C111092 1198
100CT1975SL 18 NOV 1975 SL 12 DEC 1975 SL C100051 9954
16
BIRTH C CHRISTENING D DEATH OR BURIAL
M MARRIAGE
N-CENSUS
w-will
BIRTH OR CHRISTENING OF FIRST
ALL OTHERS MISCELLANEOUS
571
COUNTRY
SEX M MALE FEMALE H HUSBAND/W WIFE
FATHER MOTHER OR SPOUSE
REGION BAITISH ISLES
NAME
MC NEIL, HUGH
MCNEIL HUGH
MC NEIL, HUGH
MCNEIL, MUGH
MCNEILL, HUGN
MC NEIL, HUGH
DUMFRIES, DUMFRIES
ROBERT MCNEIL/JANET WRIGHT NO 243 EP1833
WILLIAM MC NEIL/JANET MILLER MD 210CT1855 LANARK, GLASGOW, TRADESTON
HUGH MCNEIL/MARION LOVE MB 240CT1836 RENFREW, KILBARCHAN
HUGH MCNEILL/MART BOYLENBOSMAY 1858 LAMARK, SPRINGBURN
HUGH MC NEIL/ANN JANE WIGGINS MD 070CT1859 LANARK, GLASGOW, BLYTHSWOOD
SCOTLAND
AS OF OCT 1971
EVENT
COUNTY, TOWN, PARISH
DATE
SERIAL
PAG
$0.003
SOURCE
$
BATCH
SHEET
CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED
C118211 0408
CLEARED
160CT1980PV
CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED
30JAN1981PY 17FEB1981PV
CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED
(119339 1066
C115681 0384
0119151 1321
MACHIELL, HUGH
MC NEILL, HUGH
HUGH MACHIELL/CHRISTINA ALLAN M12JAN1860 LANARK, GLASGOW, ANDERSTON
NB 13JUN1860 DUNBARTON, ROM
CLEARED
CLEARED CLEARED
119311 8638
26JAN198OLD OSAPR198OLD 15MAT198OLD C113031 0944
C119271 4497
CLEARED
JAMES MC NEILL/MARGARET JANE MURPHY
MCNEIL, HUGH
MENETL, HUGH
MCNEIL, HUGH
HUGH MCNEIL/SARAH DOCHERTY MD 260CT1860 RENFREW, PORT GLASGOW
SANUEL MENEILYAGNES JACK 266CT860 LANARK, GLASGOW, BRIDGETON
JOHN MCNEIL/ELIZABETH CRA16 HD 11 JUN 1861 LANARK, GLASGOW, BLYTHSWOOD
CLEARED
CLEARED
MC NAL, HUGH
MCNEILL, HUGH
MCNEILL, HUGH
MCNEIL, HUGH
MCNEIL. MUGH
JAMES MCNEILL/ELIZABETH JAMIESON
CLEARED
MS 19AUG 1862 RENFREW, GREENOCK 19AUG 1862
JAMES MCNEILL/ANN MCMILLAN M220CT1862 ARGYLL, KILCALMONELL AND KILBERRY
NB07SEP1865 LANARK, CAMBUSNETHAN CLEARED
HUGH MCNEIL/SARAN DOCHERTY MD233EP1863 LANARK, GLASGOW, HIGH CHURCH
CLEARED CLEARED
CLEARED CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED
23JUN1976PY UNCLEARED
DESEP1980PV 06DEC1980PV 14JAN1981
CLEARED
CLEARED
115741 2102
C11920111161
C119271 6033
6940066
°
C115161 0325
196281 7724
CLEARED
CLEARED
CLEARED
011918124364
HUGH MCNEIL/SARAM STEWART MB 29 MAR1867 LANARK.GOVAN
FIFADER
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_015.txt
THE
STATISTICAL ACCOUNT
ОР
SCOTLAND.
DRAWN UP FROM THE COMMUNICATIONS
OF THE
MINISTERS
O F THE
DIFFERENT PARISHES.
BY SIR JOHN SINCLAIR, BART.
VOLUME
TENTH.
"Ad confilium de republica dandum, caput eft noffe rempublicam."
CICERO, de Orat. lib. ii.
EDINBURGH:
PRINTED AND SOLD BY WILLIAM CREECH;
AND ALSO SOLD BY J. DONALDSON, A. GUTHRIE, AND JO. AND JA.
FAIRBAIRN, EDINBURGH; T. CADELL, J. DEBRETT, AND J.
SIWEL, LONDON%;B DUNLOP AND WILSON, GLASGOW;
ANGUS AND SON, ABERDEEN.
M,DCC,XCIV.
1794
Isle of Tyree
572
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_016.txt
ISLANDS OF ARGYLL, ARRAN, BŪTE
MULL
INVERNESS-SHIRE
6
ARGYLL
PERTHSHIRE
of Tiry.
255
PARISH OF TIR Y.
(Prefbytery of Mull.-Synod and County of Argyle.)
By the Reverend Mr ARCHIBALD M'COLL.
ATLANTIC
OCEAN
L
10
ISLAY
11
FIRTH OF LORNE
13
STIRLINGSHIRE
DUNBARTONSHIRE
FIRTH OF
CLYDE
ZARRAN
Won. MacNeill
KEY TO PARISHES
1. Coll
Home Island
2. Tiree
7. Colonsay
8. Jura
9. Kilchoman
13. Kilmory
14. Kilbride
15. Rothesay
10. Killarow and Kilmeny 16. Kingarth
3. Kilninian
4. Torosay
5. Kilfinichen
11. Kildalton
6. Lismore and Appin
12. Gigha and Cara
17. Cumbrae
16
CLYDE
RENFREWSHIRE
17
AYRSHIRE
Name.
TIRY or Tin-I feems to import the country belonging
to I. or Iona, this ifland lying within 10 leagues of
Icolumkil. It appears to have been, in the time of St Co-
lumba, part of the patrimony of the church, and to have
fupplied that famous feat of learning with confiderable quan-
tities of grain. It had a more ancient nanie, Rioghachd bar fo
thuin, i. e. The kingdom whofe fummits are lower than
the waves,' and this name, ftill uſed in romantic tales,
indicates the natural fituation of the iſland, the loweft and
flatteft country perhaps in Scotland. The waves are often
feen, from the one ſhore, rifing feveral feet above the level
of the rocks upon the other. Coll or Colla is another ifland,
making part of the parish of Tiry, feparated E. by N. from
Tiry, by a found about a league broad. In this found lies
the ifland of Gunna, a mile long and half a mile broad.
There are befides feveral uninhabited iflets, fuch as the two
Soas, Ellen-mor, &c.
Extent.
574
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_017.txt
256
↓
394
Statiflical Account
Extent. On the W. the profpect from this parish i
bounded only by the Atlantic Ocean. The Ifles of Barra,
Uift, Sky, Rum, Egg, Canna, and Monk, with the hills of.
Morven, Moidart, Morthir, Arafaig, and Cnoidart, are feen
at a diftance, with Ardmurchan and Mull more in the
neighbourhood, and at near triple the diftance, Ifla, Jura,
Collonta, and Scarba, with the mainland of Argyle, may be
difcerned. The parith extends, nearly in a ftraight line,
from W. by S. to E. by N. about 29 Englifh miles, includ
ing the found. Of this extent, Tiry is about 11 miles long,
and near 2 broad, and Coll, about 14 long and 2 broad.
The whole contains nearly 25000 acres.
Surface, &c.-The coaft is moftly rocky, interfected with
many beautiful fandy bays, fome of them a mile broad at the
head. The Bay of Gott is about 2+ miles round the head;
and the ground fo firmn, that a horfe at full gallop makes an
impreflion not above half an inch deep. About the half of
Tiry is arable, interfperfed with fmall rocks and rifing
grounds. There are five or fix green hills; three of them
from 200 to 300 feet above the level of the fea. There are
24 lakes, covering about 600 acres, fome of which might be
eafily drained; trouts cannot live in them, owing to the in-
credible number of eels. There are no marthes and fcarce-
ly any dangerous hogs; for though a great part of this flat
furface, in a rainy feafon, be wet, the bottom is either rock
or firm fand. In the interior parts, about 1200 acres of
ground were, till within thefe three years, common to the
whole inhabitants, but they are now inclofed and included
in the adjacent farms. This ground is moftly heath, of very
fmall growth. The foil feems to have been of confiderable
depth, though, having been often cut for fuel, the rocks are
now expofed. At every bay lies invariably a tract of fandy
ground,
of Tiry.
257
395
ground, either arable, green mounts, or broken banks,
perhaps 40 or 50 feet high. This fand, in courfe of time,
driven by the winds, and not prevented by a coat of fea-
weeds, or heavy earth, afcends into the interior parts, and
lays wafte large tracks of ground.
Though Coll confifts alfo of low ground, it differs nuch
from Tiry. The coaft is bolder. Not above a 16th part of
it is arable. The inhabitants by induftry make good crops
by delving. Though rugged and unfriendly to the plough, it
affords excellent thelter for cattle. A very confiderable part
is heath, and moffy ground, partly convertible into arable.
It contains 48 finall lakes, 19 of them abounding in trouts.
:
The whole of Tiry and the two ends of Coll are the pro-
perty of the Duke of Argyle, who is allo patron. The middle
part of Coll above two thirds of the ifland) is the property of
the Laird of Coll, who chiefly refides in the parith. fra-
dition fays, that the whole property defcended, from Mac.
donald of the Ifles, to the Macleans. By marriage the Mac-
leans retained it' till the family of Argyle obtained right to
the greatelt part of Mull, Morven, and Tiry. The real rent
of the parish is near 2000 l.
Soil, Produce, Cultivation.-The foil of Tiry is various;
fandy, mofly, clay, and black carth, with their different com-
pofitions. The fandy foil prevails, and produces very poor
crops, except when very well manured. If fown early, there
is danger of blowing; if late, of fummer drought. The
country being flat, even a fhort continuance of rain endangers
the vegetation in the lower grounds. Two-thirds of the
whole arable ground are either too wet or too dry; and al-
molt the whole furface is expofed to ftorins. The returns,
communibus annis, are about 4 feed from barley, and 2+ from
fmall black oats (the prevailing forts of grain) and about 5
from
575
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_018.txt
258
396
Statiflical Account
from potatoes, of which a great quantity is planted, moftly
in lazy beds. Drilling potatoes is now introduced. The
increafe is from 8 to 20 feeds, and the incumbent has feen
it at 32. They tell of far fuperior increafe in grain, when
the land was in good condition. There were then ſcarcely
tenants fuflicient to occupy the lands, though now. they are
fo numerous, that the ground is fet in too finall portions to
accommodate perhaps 12 or 24 of them in one farm, each
paying from 1 to 41. 4s. of yearly rent. The confequence
is, they plough as much as they can; and their lands are
impoverished, as they feldom get reit. Above two-thirds of
the manure are fea-weed. The great quartity of falt they
contain is, indeed, poifon to many weeds; but as they foon
putrify and diffolve, and, as a flimulus, produce their effect,
they cannot last long, nor add much to the foil, having but
little earth. Till the middle of June, the cattle are fuffered
to pafture on the corn, which alfo very much prevents a bet
ter return. Such practices, with the unfavourable climate,
make the crop precarious. The foil of Coll, though broken
with rocks, is preferable, and the returns are in proportion,
Repeated trials have been made of fowing great white oats.
The ground was either poor, too dry or too wet. They did
not ripen as early as the native oats, and could not withſtand.
the torms. Often they did not return even their feed,
though they might anfwer well in fome fpots, if inclofed,
drained, and fown carly. The parish is under a great dif
advantage in not getting a more frequent change of different
feeds; and that is never enjoyed unleſs by a few gentlemen,"
at a very high expence, with many difappointments. In-'
troducing peafe, turnips, and other roots, and green crops in
general, would be a great improvement, eſpecially in this *
foil and climate. The native flax is fcarcely 18 inches long;'
and there are no ways of drefling it expeditiously, whereby
it
of Tiry.
it becomes a dear manufacture.
259
397
A few experiments of fow-
ing grafs turned out well. The natural grafs of moſt of the
fields is red and white clover and daily. Frequent but thort
rains, mixing different foils as manures, ufing compoft dung-
hills, with a great number of drains and inclofures, may pro-
mife a joyful harvest.
Seed Time, Harvest, &c.-The ordinary time of fowing oats
and planting potatoes is from 26th March to the 10th May;
and for barley from the 30th April to the 20th June. The
harveft generally begins about the middle of Auguft, and is
finifhed about the 10th October. The farmers cannot well
begin fowing earlier, owing to wet lands, fand blowing, and
trefpafs of cattle; but they might to great advantage finiſh
earlier. What moftly prevents it is, that barley is the pre-
vailing crop, which gets two and fometimes three ploughings,
and fo confumes much time.
Now, as they are bufy incloſing, and can therefore pre-
ferve their grounds, it is to be hoped they will attend to this
particular, whence the following great advantages might
arife They might earlier fow their corn and hay, provide
I fuel, manufacture their kelp, fifh more, and, what is now
hardly thought of, manure and otherwife improve part of
their farms in fummer, and then finish their harveft carlier
and fafer; and fo the whole annual rotation of work would
be more feafonable.
The inhabitants commonly ferve themfelves in meal, feed,
and fpirits. Hardly any foreign fpirits are now imported.
The laft feafon proved rather better. A few years ago they
ufually fold from 200 to 300 Scotch gallons of whiſky to
the neighbouring iſlands. The parish had then upwards of
30 fills, but is now reduced to three ſmall licenfed ones.
Now the inhabitants are increaſed; and, in the bad feafons
of
576
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_019.txt
260
398
Statifical Account
of 1790 and 1791, they hardly diftilled 300 bolls; and bought,
each fucceeding year, above 2000 bolls of meal at a very high
rate, and their feed potatoes at 5 s. per barrel *.
Woods. It plainly appears that wood formerly grew in
this parith, when thinly inhabited and fewer cattle reared.
Frequently large pieces of trees are found in meffes; though
now there is not a tree in it, nor is it probable that upon
trial any would thrive in it, the fituation being fo far in the
ocean and without thelter. There are, indeed, ſome ſmall
twigs 2 or 3 feet long growing in Coll, which is better fhel-
tered than Tiry. Efpaliers rife the height of a wall, and ber-
ry buthes thrive when theltered in gardens. The laird of
Coll planted a large garden. The berry bushes thrive in
it, but the young trees, though promiting at firft, foon dif
cover that this is not their climate.
The Duke of Argyle fupplies his tenants gratis, with tim-
ber out of his woods on the fide of Lochfunart, 60 or 70
Iniles off; yet it often becomes a dangerous and dear purchaſe,
requiring the hire of boats and hands for a fortnight or up-
wards. The dampnefs of the air, and blowing of fand, upon
many of the houſes, foon rot the roofs, and make the de-
mand frequent and expenfive.
Waters,
The boll of barley fells from 16s. to 11. and ſmall oats at
half thefe prices. Potatoes from 1 s. to 2 s. 6d. per barrel. The
gentlemen rear fo well, and the fmall tenants have fo few
cattle, that very little butter or cheeſe is made; 24 lib. English
of each fell at 18s.; beef from 11. 10 s. to 21. per barrel; fresh
fizeable cod at 3d.; ling 6d.; fwine from 5s. to 10s.;
Theep from 4s. to 6s; hens and ducks 6d.; and live cows
from 11. 6s. to 31. 10s. Having no fixed markets of any
kind in the parish, nor way to lend to them, we labour under
this great difadvantage, that, when we abound. we get no ar-
ticles fold. and when we mult buy, it is commonly at the high-
et rate: When provifions are too cheap, it is not fo much ow
ing to the great abundance as to the want of a market.
of Tiry.
261
399
Waters, Mills, &c.-Though there be a great number of
brooks, Tiry mills feldom can be wrought for want of water
or fufficient falls, above five or fix months yearly. This
makes it neceffary, either to fend our grain at a great expence
to other countries, or ufe querns or hand-inills. By the low-
eft calculation, the work of 50 women is yearly loft at grind-
ing. This, with the great lofs of grain, which we experience,
the lofs of other labour, time, and expences, amounts yearly
to feveral hundred pounds Sterling. But there is now ex-
pectation of a wind-mill *.
Minerals.
It is remarkable that at the heads of creeks and bays,
there are frequently banks formed of fmall round ftones covered
with earth, feemingly formed by the violence of the fea, though
now far above high water mark.
There is a plain, called the Reef, near the center of Tiry,
reckoned by travellers a very great curiolity. It is almoft a
pentagon of 1200 Scotch acres, with a fandy bottom moftly co-
vered with black earth ten inches deep, a beautiful carpet va-
riegated with flowers. It ſeems to have been gained from the
fea; the work of ages. The part next the ſhore has received
confiderable additions within the prefent generation. It has
three curved green banks, each about two feet high, upon
which it appears the fea had formerly beat. Between thefe
banks the ground is furpriſingly plain. The greatest height
above high water mark is about fix feet, except a fmall
hill near the center, nine feet higher. The whole Reef is a
green
common untouched by a plough. Upon the top of this hill,
looking backwards from under the arm, all the objects upon the
plaun are feen inverted. This plain is bounded on one fide by
Faothail, or a fmall channel with a meandring current, fofmootle
that the motion is fcarcely perceptible. It branches towards the,
head, which is within one third of a mile to the other flore.
When fwelled with rain and a high ſpring tide, being without
a bridge, it greatly obftructs travellers. Here there is fome
danger of the ifland being cut in two, to prevent which a bar-
ricade of ftone and earth was raifed on the oppofite fhore, in
one part; and the violent forms have raifed a high bank of
round ftones in another; yet the impetuons furge fometimes
baffles the whole. There is the like danger near the weft end
of Coll among the fand banks.
577
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_020.txt
262
Statistical Account
Minerals. Hard whinſtone prevails in this parish, yet
there is frequently ironſtone and granite, and in one farm
abundance of limestone and marble. The qualities of the Ti-
ry marble are now well known; it is fometimes
pure white;
fometimes red and white, or white and green; and fome-
times variegated with numberlets figures. It is to be hoped
a correfpondence will be continued, a market procured, and
a marble work carried on.-There is also a lead mine at
Croffapol in Coll.
Animals. The hill of Ceanmharra, the weft point of Tiry,
is very remarkable for a great number of large natural caves,
frequented, in time of hatching, by innumerable flocks of fea-
fowls. The height of fome of the caves 160 feet, the fea
bellowing in below, and thouſands of fowls, with difcordant
notes, crouding upon the cliffs, form a hideous fcene. In
other magnificent caves, the raven, the hawk, or the eagle,
build their lofty nefts. Separate from all thefe, the pigeons
have chofen their habitations: Hither their enemy, at the rifk
of his life, defcends a very unpleaſant ſtair, carrying fire and
a bundle of ftraw, to which he fets fire. The finoke fuffocat-
ing them, they fly into the flames, attached to the light, ap-
parently the paffage to eſcape; thus numbers of them are
caught. At the diftance of 6 leagues weftward from this
hill, lie a clufter of unhofpitable rocks, called Sceir-mhor, to
which young adventurers, before fun rifing in a calm fummer
day, go in queft of ſport. The ſkins of the fea-calves, the
old inhabitants of theſe rocks and feas, which they kill with
clubs or bullets, commonly meaſure from fix to eight feet
in length.
Three forts of wild geefe frequent theſe ifles. About the
beginning of April, they all go off to places of greater fecuri-
ty and ſhelter for hatching, and return as foon as their young
are
of Tiry.
263
are able to accompany them. When feeding in the mea-
dows, or fields, they are fure to keep at a diftance from rocks
When flying
and dykes, and have conftantly a centinel.
they form an angle about 45 degrees inclined. The geofe
in the angle leads the reft, till he changes his place, and a
neighbour fucceeds him. Swans alfo, in finaller companies
with their melodious march, come as paffengers upon the
lakes. Many thouſands of gray plovers are feen together,
efpecially upon the reef or great plain; they. obferve the
fame feafon with the wild-geefe in hatching elſewhere. The
green plovers hatch in the iſland. Rails are very numerous.
Moufe coloured fwallows inhabit the fand banks. The cuc-
koo is very rarely feen. Magpies, and many other birds
which are upon the mainland, never appear. There are
neither ferpents, toads, frogs, weafels, nor venomous crea-
tures of any kind. Rabbits are numerous, lodging in the
fand in the caft end of Coll; and a couple of hares introduc-
ed there, about 7 years ago, are increaſed to many hund-
reds *.
Climate,
Antiquities. There are many ſigns of Danish invaders
having for fome time poffeffed thefe ifles. Among theſe are
Fingalian and other tales repeated by the inhabitants, mention-
ing engagements and the names of chieftains. At this day they
point out their burying-places, whence the ground derives its
name. Nor are their dins, forts, or watch-towers, lefs re-
markable. There are 39 remains of them in the two iflands,
generally built on rocks, round the whole coalt, and within
fight of fome other. They are faid to have been uſed, when
an enemy appeared, for fuddenly alarming the country by the
fignal of fire. There are two walls without any appearance of
Jime or other cement. The inner is circular, and the outer often
affumes the figure of the rock on which it is founded.
whole of thele ifles and a confiderable part of the mainland
were named Infeadh. Gaul, which fignities the ifles or places of fe-
curity for frangers.
The
There are 15 remains of old chapels or churches, at fome of
which are burying grounds and croffes ſtill to be feen. There
is
578
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_021.txt
264
402
Statiflical Account
Climate, Difcafes, Population, &c.-Durable froft or fnow
is very rare, and the air is tempered by the fea; yet it may
be called a cold climate, in winter, without any fheler. It
may alfo be called rainy three fifths of the year. When there
is
is at the chapel of Kilkeneth in Tiry a burying ground fo fandy,
that, by blowing, heaps of human bones are feen, and coffins of
ten expofed, before half cenfumed. It is now furrounded by
fand banks higher than the fide walls; they no longer bury
here. Along the coalts, in many parts, are buried the remains
of drowned perfons caft alhore. At the above hill of C-anm.
harra, on a very rugged declivity, is fituated St. Patrick's temple.
The veftige of a wall inclofes it in one third of an acre of land.
It is 26 by 11 feet within walls; the fide walls 5 feet high; one
gable fix inches thicker than the other, without a roof, and ill
built of lone and lime. A ſquare altar in the east end is ftill 18
inches high. The croſs without the pedeftal 4 feet. Within 60 *
yards of it, at the fhore on the top of a rock, is made a hollow, 2 feet
diameter and 4 deep, called by the country people St Patrick's
Vat. There are 9 or 10 long (tones, in different parts of the
parish, feemingly erected as monuments British, Danish, and
other fmail filver coirs, in fuall earthen veffels, have often been
dag out of moffes and fandy ground. Two years ago, was dif
covered a bent tubular piece of gold about 21. value, the two.
ends not clofely joined, and not unlike a fort of ear-ring. In a
flack yard at Cornaigbeg in Tiry, in digging pits in fandy
ground to fecure potatoes during winter and fpring, there were
found at different times human skeletons, and nigh them the
keletons of hoifes. They feemed to have been compleatly armed, "
according to the times. Two handed fwords were found dimi
nifhed with ruft; filver work preferved the handles; there were
allo fhields and helmets, with a brafs fpear. Nigh this was dif
covered another fkeleton, holding the skeleton of an infant in
its arms. It is propofed to dig more of this ground. Some of
thefe emiolitics are in the poffeflion of the Duke of Argyle."
In Coll near the family feat (a good modern houſe three fto-.
ries high with wings, &c.) is the old habitation, a fquare built
callle, with turrets and fome lower additions. The main build..
ing is fill roofed; the whole apartments are diflinct. Near the
center of Tiry is a lake with an ifland in it, whereupon was
built a fimilar caftle; the accefs by a made road and draw bridge.
Upon the ruins of this, in 1748, was erected a houfe with a gar-
den for the Duke of Argyle's factor. The ifland was fometime
ago made a peninsula.
of Tiry.
265
423
is froft on the mainland, there is often mild weather in thefe
iflands; when finow in the one, there is often but rain in the
other. The rain water lodges on this flat furface; and with
the exhalations from fo many lakes, in calm weather, often
rifes in mift. An inland country, in this damp fituation,
would be very unhealthy; but the healthy fea air generally
drives away whatever is noxious. The houfes of the com-
mon people are generally in dry fituations and remarkably
warm, built as ufual in fandy iflands (partly through want
of ſtones, which are ill to quarry, but moftly out of choice,)
of an inner and outer fingle wall, filled up in the middle with
Ifandy earth from 4 to 6 feet thick. The people are lively,
induftrious, and chearful, and often engaged in active em-
ployments, in the open air; yet the dampnefs of the place,
'the want of proper firing, and the poor living of many, feem
to be the great caufes of frequent rheumatifms, dyfeutaries,
and nervous fevers. Draining of the lakes, and flat grounds,
may add much to the falubrity of the place. Both ifles, up-
on the whole, appear to be healthy from the great age to
_which many of the inhabitants attain.
Number of fouls in Tiry,
in March 1792
Males
Females
Under 10
From 80 to 90
7
2416
From 90 to 100
5
1184
Annual average of bap-
1232
tifins in Tiry, for 6
663
years
95
From 10 to 20
573
Marriages ditto "
16
737
Families
467
270
77
Workmen
66
22
Cottars
131
From 90 to 100
Above 100
I
Families in Coll
199
I
Farmers
97
Number
From 20 to 50
From 50 to 70
From
70 to 80
From 80 to 90
334 Farmers
579
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_022.txt
266
Statistical Account
Number of fouls in Coll,
Workmen
37
in January 1793
-
1041
Cottars
65
Males
497
Total population of both
Females
544
iflands
3457
Under 10
322
Return to Dr Webſter
From 10 to 20
203
from Tiry in 1755
1509
From 20 to 50
346
-from Coll, ditto
1193
132
Total
2702
-
26
Increaſe fince 1755
From 50 to 70
From 70 to 80
755
The Tiry-man above 100, was allowed to be 106, at his
death, in fpring laft. Except for the laft 7 years he ſupport-
ed himſelf and wife by herding. His livelinefs appeared to
the laft, not only by walking but dancing. There are no re-
gifters of births or burials, and the parish records preceeding
the prefent incumbent's time have been loft.
There are not 40 natives of any other parish in the two
ifles. Tradefmen are numerous, yet fome good ones are
much wanted. It is not eafy to calculate their number, be-
caufe, in general, they are not diftinct from farmers. Many
men and women work at the weaving buſineſs. There are
very few batchelors or widowers. The men frequently mar-
ry at 19 or 20. The population has been alfo increaſed,
within thefe 14 years, by three fuccefsful courfes of inocula-
tion.
The fituation of the parish is difinal without a furgeon re-
fiding in it. Poor people cannot afford fending occationally
for a furgeon, to a distant country, at great expences, with
frequent difappointments; the raging elements forbid it; or
perhaps before the relief arrive, the hope of the family is no
more. Too often has the prefent incumbent feen child-bed
women, in particular, fall fad facrifices without relief. It is
too much for this parish, without manufactures, and without
greater
of Tiry.
267
greater improvements in agriculture, to fupport 3457 inhabi-
tants, if they ſhould be free of other burdens. Yet the peo-
ple have often and cordially united to make up a fmall falary,
according to their abilities, and beſtowed it upon young fur-
geons, who refided now and then amongſt them, confider-
ing it as a temporary appointment. There are now fo many
pious mortifications, fo many public funds raifed upon chari-
table foundations; if, in this refpect, the fituation of this pa
rifh was reprefented and known, Is there any part in Scot-
land in greater need of relief from them? A fund of this
kind, with a farm to refide on, together with what a furgeon
could add to it by his practice, might be an object worth at-
tention to fome gentleman of that profeffion. In the time of
the laft American war, in one twelvemonth 120 youths, and
in this fpring above 100, left this ifland for the fervice of
their country. Does not this merit attention in many ref
pects?
Fuel Coll Ifland abounds in mofs of the beſt quality for
peats, but at fuch diſtances from fome of the farms, that
coals bought at moderate prices, would be far cheaper. One
end of Tiry can, for a few years, inake peats, but in the other
end near 200 families are reduced to the greateſt diſtreſs.
They are robbed of the moſt valuable feafon, in which they
fhould be improving their farms, in ruining, in fleaing them,
2 or 3 inches deep, wherever there is the ſmalleſt mixture of
mofs in the foil. They have now expofed the rocks in many
places. Neceffity finds out many ſhifts. Sometimes in fpring
they gather dried horfe dung; they even burn ſtraw, and
then comes the laſt ſhift, burning the roofs of their houfes
or fome of their furniture.
Manufactures and Fibery.-This parish, in its prefent fitu-
ation, is fo over peopled, that, though the lands be ſtill oc-
cupied
580
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_023.txt
268
Statiflical Account
cupied by fmall tenants, 1200 or 1500 males and females,
above eight year old. might be ſpared for fishing and other
manufactures. For which purpoſe, wherever the fituation
admits of it, every farm, eſpecially thoſe from 30 to 200 in-
habitants, fhould be fubdivided and incloſed to one, or at
moft four tenants each divifion. Thefe few would be more
difpofed to improve their farms than now, in common with
many, whofe main ſtudy is to plough all they can, though
but ill prepared for a good crop. Numerous inhabitants are
agreeable, and have their uſes. Here they may be made ftill
more numerous; but when with a view to ferve them all,
lands in common are divided into very fall portions, fuch
families can never thrive. If the fuperfluous number of ten-
ants were converted into manufacturers, the remaining ones
would be more eafily enabled to pay their rents, even if aug-
mented, live better, educate their children, and fell more to
fupport the manufacturers. who in return would enrich the
country from a variety of fources. As this parish, when im-
proved, might fupport a village in moſt of the neceifaries of
life, befides the above divifions, for the encouragement of
tradefmen, a convenient fituation fhould be chofen for inclo-
fures of a few acres, for greens, roots, grafs feeds, &c. which,
though fome of them could not afford to keep a horfe, they
might improve like a garden with the ſpade, or by occafion-
ally hiring a horſe or plough. Lands, in common with
others, would ruin a tradeſmen, whereas fuch feparate pof-
feffions would caufe a great emulation for improvements, and
would be equally to the advantage of proprietors and tenants.
The ingredients with which any country abounds, point
out the manufactures proper to begin with. Accordingly, as
part of this foil could produce good flax, the culture of, and
preparation of it fhould be studied, as none of thefe are well
understood here. The abundance of a fuperior quality of
clay,
of Tiry.
269
clay, points out another fource of manufactures. Applying
kelp might be applied to feveral uſes, falt fo convenient to
the western fisheries, might be made here. Several other
manufactures, of which the materials are eafily imported,
might be tried, fuch as working of nets, ſtockings, &c. The
marble alfo might employ many hands. Above all, fishing
should never be neglected in Tiry and Coll, one of the beſt
ftations in all the weſtern ifles. The attempts that have been
made, and the feveral fithing banks daily difcovered confirm
this. The country being flat, the feas near it will not na-
turally be deep. Some of the banks are close to the fhore.
Experienced fishers obferve that, of all the places they know,
this is nearest to the fishing grounds In fummer 1787, there
were feveral companies of natives employed, and, though of lit-
tle experience, they caught at one fetting of 200 or 300 hooks,
from 30 to 80 cod and ling, befides a variety of fcate, eels,
dol-fith, &c. and those who had harpoons and lines caught at
the fame time fail-fith, each yielding from 5 to 8 barrels off.
Herrings frequent the bay of Gott, yet there are no nets on
the ifland. There are yearly companies from Barra, who
prefer this to their own ifland, especially as lefs fatiguing.
Thefe having more experience, are more fucceſsful than our
men. There have been alfo adventurers from Ireland and the.
eaft of Scotland fuccefsful. In one floop particularly, though
they concealed their fuccefs, they feemed, from their heaps
upon the fhore, to have caught in 2 months, from 12000 to
160co cod and ling. There are, this year, fome companies
from Barra, one from Ayr, and one only of the natives. They
commonly catch from 100 to 240 per day, fo that fometimes
they do not raife their whole lines at once; their boats not
being able to carry the fith athore. Notwithſtanding fuch a
promifing profpet, of their having, with a great number of
fifhing yawls, 10 boats in the parish, partly decked, which
carry
581
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_024.txt
270
Statiflical Account
carry from 3 to 14 tons, of their lying fo conveniently upon
the fpot, and of having many hardy feamen amongst them,
they do not, in this diſtrict, purſue the fishing with fpirit.
The reafons are obvious. They are moſtly farmers having a
fmall portion of land, in common with many, which requires
daily attendance. Farming in common, and other branches
of bufinefs, can never thrive in the fame hands. Poor people
who have a fure, though perhaps a ftarving way of ſupport-
ing their families, feldom riſk their ſmall fortunes, and of
their own accord begin a new branch of bufinefs. The dan-
ger of not being fucceſsful frightens them. When a confider-
able ftock is neceffary for fitting them out, the plan is relin-
quifhed as ideal. Surely the expence in boats, hands, hooks,
harpoons, lines, &c. is confiderable, and the florms otten
break their lines and buoys. If a man could ſpare, from his
daily employment, time to catch 200 or 300 cod and ling,
they turn out to little avail without a purchafer at hand. The
good effects of the Crinan canal are only yet feen at a dif.
tance. If the fither cures with prohibited falt, they are feiz-
able on the way to market; he finds it too chargeable for his
fmall cargo, to vifit the cuſtom-houſe ſo often, and obferve
all its regulations for falt, nor indeed does he underſtand
them, he prefers to give triple price for it elfewhere. I have
feen country lads from neglect of forms like to be ruined,
and even gentlemen who knew buſineſs fuffer much. If theſe
regulations must be kept in force without exception, without
amendment, a bar to fithing, ſhould not fome well wither to.
his country collect and explain them to low capacities? Thus
in the fmall attempts, the great things that might arife from
them are in effect difcouraged.
Procuring aid to the natives, from fome public fund, to
purchaſe lines, hooks, harpoons, &c. would raife a fpirit of
emulation to make more attempts, especially as an eafy com-
munication
of Tiry.
271
munication with Clyde will foon be opened. Some perfon
refiding conftantly in the parish, with a ſtore of falt to pur-
chafe whatever quantity might be caught, even in winter and
fpring, when fome of the fith are beft in feafon, might be of
effential fervice. But of all encouragements to make them
perfevere, the beft is, to improve fome harbours or creeks in
the moſt convenient places; at leaſt one upon the N. fide,
convenient for the great bank between Tiry and Barra, but
one third nearer Tiry; and on the S. fide Scairnib, the
common harbour, which admits of confiderable improve-
ments. In its prefent flate the entrance is very dangerous,
being too long, and in moft places not above 40 yards wide,
between two rocks, and a third lying cross at the very en-
trance. When in ftormy weather the wind is S. or W. a
heavy fwell froin the Atlantic enters the harbour. When
the wind is N. N. by E. or N. W. a veffel that might come.
within a few fathoms of the fhore, muſt ſheer off again to
fea in a form. When within the harbour, the wind may be
many days fair for a voyage, but a veffel cannot get out of it.
At once to prevent fuch misfortunes and make the ifland
much more valuable, a fmall expence may build a quay, at
leaft as far out as it cbbs, to be fecured from the impetuous.
furge, partly with timber and iron, but moftly with loofe
ftones behind, which are at hand. A fhort quay at each
fide of the entrance, overlapping each other, with fmall breaft
works within, may be the moft eligible. Near this, on the
W. fide of the bay of Gott, is excellent anchoring ground.
It opens fouthwards, is within 2 miles of the E. end of the
ifland, and runs near 2 miles into the land. The bottom is
fand mixed with clay and fea grafs; and, though fometimes
there be a fwell, I have feen veffels ride, in great ſtorms,
without driving one foot. The entrance is very fafe, and the
depth gradually decreaſing, from 16 fathoms, to the finalleft
for
582
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_025.txt
272
Statiflical Account
for a mile inwards. There is a good place for a quay by it.
It were to be wished that this bay was better known, being
moft convenient for veffels which do not hold through the
founds, and might prevent many ſhipwrecks, one of which
happened fo lately as March laft. There are alfo on the S.
fide of Coll, Loch-Iothuirn and Loch Breacachy, ſtations
where veffels frequently anchor, and which might be much
improved. A knowledge of thefe harbours is the more ne-
ceffary, as there are in many places on the coafts a great
fwell, ftrong currents, and many rocks, as Sceir-mhor weft-
ward, and the Cairn of Coll caftward.
Sheep, Black Cattle, and Horfes.-A few years ago there
were at leaſt 14,oco ſheep in thefe ifles. The Laird of
Coll banithed them aloft out of his lands. The inclemency
of the feafons reduced them in Tiry. There are not now
above 1100 in the parish. Though in other countries a moft
beneficial ftock, they are moſt deftructive, efpecially to Tiry.
There is not a fufficient range for them. They do not thrive
in fummer owing to certain weeds; nor in winter on account
of the wetnefs of the paſture. Where the grafs is thin and
fhort, they tear up by their feet the very roots for food.
They lodge in hollows for fhelter, and fo break the fward,
and expofe the fand to be driven by the winds, whence whole
fields are ruined, becoming white banks. Tiry pafture is al-
ready too fine. Sheep convert the little coarfe grafs there is
into a finer pile, to the great prejudice of black cattle, as it
fubjects them, when ferried to another country, to the dif
temper called murrain or bloody urine, and confequently re-
Juces a third of their price, till they get one winter's ſcafon-
ing effewhere. Yet if the sheep were banished, it would be
neceffary to contract for years with ſheep-graziers, whereby
wool might be provided to the inhabitants at a moderate rate.
of Tiry.
273
The black cattle of Tiry and part of Coll, which have no
accefs to pafture in heathy ground, are fubject as above to
the murrain, or in Gaelic airneach, probably from its affecting.
the kidneys. It ſeems to be communicated either from the
milk or fine grafs, or from both. However, when ſheep are
banished, the coarſe grafs incloſed and encouraged to grow,
being the beſt pafture for calves and young cattle, it becomes
at leaft fuch a feaſoning as may prevent the above diftemper.
Then fuch cattle, deducing the inconveniencies of ferrying,
might moft probably fell as high as any in the Highlands.
There are beautiful cattle reared here, especially of late,
which, when fent to English paſture, grow to an amazing
fize. One of them, of which we lately had an account, fed
by Mr Spearman of Northumberland, 1790, weighed in beef,
tallow, and hide, 117 ftone 5½ lib.
Except upon gentlemens farms, who occupy two fifths of
the land, there is not one third more of black cattle than of
horfes. This cannot be effectually rectified by the prefent
divifion of the lands and plan of huſbandry.
Number of horſes in
'Tiry
Number of Sheep
1400
Number of horfes in
Coll
500
-
600 Number of ſheep
500
245
160 Ploughs
Tons of kelp manufac-
tured
55
34
1800
Black cattle
1300
-
260 Ditto yearly ferried
250
3°
Tons of kelp manufac-
tured
Ploughs
Black cattle
Ditto yearly ferried
Ditto ditto flaughtered
70 Ditto ditto flaughtered
A few years ago the number of horſes was much greater;
orders were given to reduce them in both iflands. A four year
old native horfe fells from 21. to 51. In Tiry, they might
The
be
583
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_026.txt
274
Statiflical Account
What
be reduced to 250 good ones, with fome mares.
makes the ploughs fo very numerous, is, that commonly they
only plough from the beginning of March to the 20th June.
- At leaſt one third of the kelp is made of wrack, caft by
ftorms upon the fhores.
The black cattle and horfes are moſtly in a ftarving con-
dition. The latter, when their paſture is very bare in win-
ter and ſpring, tear up the ground with their feet to come at
the roots. Many tenants keep two or three cows, which
I have not a calf for years together. One informed me of his
having a cow ten years old, that never had but one calf. An-
other, that he keeps three or four cows, but had not a calf
for fix years.
Agriculture, &c.-Incloſures are lately begun. The above
facts fhew the neceffity of continuing them, and fubdividing
farms to a few tenants that may be able to keep carts. After
a little amendment of the roads, with the money that is raif-
ed, or the fervices that may be exacted, there is no country
better calculated for them. As yet there are only five in the
parish. A fmall light Scotch plough is moſtly uſed. Great
is the neceffity of getting timber, and a proper wright. The
method of ploughing by one man, two horfes, and long reins,
is ufed only by two in the parish; but might very eafily be
practifed by getting a ſtronger breed of horſes. Inftead of
this, 4 men and 7 horfes often attend the fame furrow; two
men and 5 horfes the plough; 2 men and 2 horſes the riftle, or
fharp iron nearly the ſhape of a coulter, but bent further for-
ward, and like it fixed in a beam, with two handles to cut
the tough fward before the plough, which follows in the fame
line. When in one farm 4 or 13 ploughs are fet agoing,
and 30 cr perhaps 96 horfes with creels fent to carry fea-ware
off the shore, befides fome idle mares and followers, fuch a
of Tiry.
275
farm takes many hands and horſes, and labouring muſt prove
dear. A change of method is indeed required; and fishing
with manufactures to employ fo many fuperfluous hands.
Though the people be naturally attached to their ancient
modes, yet whenever they fee new methods purfued to per-
fection in inclofed farms, and work carried on much more
profitably, expeditiously, and cheaply, they will readily com-
ply.
Character and Customs of the People.-The common people
are not very attentive to the ordinances of religion, but are
now reforming, as the gentlemen fhew them a good example.
They ftill retain fome Roman Catholic fayings, prayers, and
oaths, as expletives; fuch as Dias Muire let, i. e. God and
Mary be with you. Air Muire,' fwearing by Mary, &c.
They are free of fuperftition, and make a confiderable progrefs
in knowledge. There is no fchifm from the established
church; and none of any other perfuafion, except now and
then a few Roman Catholic fervants from Barra. It is a
great advantage to their morals that there are only three li-
cenfed fmall ftills, and four public houſes at the ferries and
harbours in both ifles. For generations back, there has been
no
About 4 years ago, the yearly wages and gratuities of a labour-
er amounted only to 21. 12 s. and of a female fervant to 11. but
they are now increaſed near a third, owing moftly to the fer-
vants frequenting the low country. Small tenants give them
much more. Another caufe of the increaſe of wages is the en-
lifting fo many men for the army, particularly the fencible corps,
with promifes of poffeffions to their friends or to themſelves at
their return. Hence partly fo many ſmall divifions of lands
and the poverty of the tenants. Workmen with their families
are engaged for a fourth or fifth of the whole crop and grafs.
In fome countries they can more easily triple thefe wages; their
poffeffions, their foil, their markets, and plans of labouring, can
better afford it. Tradesmen have from 7 d. to 1 s. 2 d. per day,
belides victuals.
farm
584
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_027.txt
276
Statiflical Account
no robbery, murder, or fuicide. In general they are fubtile,
and not eafily deceived. They are mannerly, lively, and in-
genious, very hofpitable to ſtrangers, and kind to the diftref
fed. And though it be impoffible to answer for the behavi
our of all the common people, if left at liberty, the ſhipwreck-
ed have always found protection and ſafety from the beſt fa-
milies.
Tradition tells us of the remarkable ftature, ſtrength, and
valour, of John the Great, the laird of Coll's predeceffor.
He, in feveral battles, conquered the Macneils of Barra, who
pretended right to his lands, and eſtabliſhed himſelf in the
heritage, handed down to him from Macdonald of the Ifles.
The Macniels burying-grounds are pointed out to day, in
many places in Coll. Though Neil his brother was not near
equal in ftrength, he could raife to his breaft three fiones, on
top of each other, weighing at leaſt 16 cwt. The ſtones re-
main ftill at the place.
A country man, who died laft year about feet
5
10 inches
high, was employed by the laird of Coll as poft to Glasgow
or Edinburgh. His ordinary burden thence to Coll was 16
ftone. Being once ftopt at a toll near Dumbarton, he hu-
morously afked whether he ſhould pay for a burden, and up-
on being anfwered in the negative, carried his horfe in his
arms paft the toll.
Indeed, though of an ordinary ſize, the people are remark-
able for agility. They frequently entertain themſelves by
compofing and finging fongs, by repeating Fingalian and
other tales, by dancing affemblies at different farms by turns.
In this qualification they are remarkably neat. They are ve-
ry chearful and humorous, and there are not above two or
three of either fex corpulent in either ifle.
Poor
of Tiry.
277
Poor and Schools. They are very attentive to the poor in
fickneſs and want. They rarely have cafh, but liberally be-
ftow grain, &c. The kirk feffion funds do not afford to
give annually above 3 s. to each of 50 poor in Tiry, and 34
in Coll. There are alfo 5 s. or 6 s. allowed to help their in-
terments.
Whatever thefe Iſlanders may be behind their neighbours,
any where on the mainland, is wholly owing to their great
difadvantages as to education. I hope the period is now
arrived when the cloud fhall be dispelled. Till lately there
were only 101. of a parochial falary for a ſchool. Nine
years ago, the Society in Scotland for Propagating Chriftian
Knowledge, beftowed 101. for another ſchool. Thefe two
fchools generally had not ten ſcholars each. The people
had not tafte for education, and there were complaints againſt
the teachers. The Society have, fince the Reverend Dr.
Kemp's vifit, added to theſe falaries a fum that enables the
teachers to teach ail gratis, and beftowed a number of books
upon them. The Duke of Argyle is pleafed to add fo much
for provifions which the pariſh ſhould make. A falary is
now granted, by the Society, for a ſchool in Coll. I doubt
not but they shall henceforth be all well attended, if the
fchoolmasters be well chofen. There are now often from 60
to 80 fcholars in each. From whatever fource funds may
be obtained to accomodate this parish properly, Tiry requires
4 fchools and Coll two.
. Our congregations were untaught fingers, till the begin-
ning of this year. An itinerant church mufic teacher, with
a fmall falary, employed by the Society for Propagating
Chriftian Knowledge, was fent for. He teaches at so cheap
a rate, that it is belived 800 or 900 in the parish will attend
him this year. The good effects may be great. Singing is
already
585
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_028.txt
278
Statistical Account
already become agreeable, even to the old and illiterate.
Men at 70 years of age attend.
Sewing ſchools, and eſpecially spinning ſchools, are much
required, as the women in general are very backward in
theſe reſpects".
Emigration. Thirty-fix men, women, and children, emi-
grated from Coll to America in 1792. None hitherto has
emigrated from Tiry, though fome talk of doing fo. Their
crops failed in 1790 and 1791, which, together with the
low prices of kelp and cattle, has much reduced them. They
muft foon go fomewhere for relief, unleſs manufactures be
introduced to employ them.
Ferries. There is a ſtated ferry between Tiry and Coll,
often very dangerous, owing to a heavy fwell from the At-
lantic, to rapid currents and amazing breakers, over rocks
and ſhifting fands. There is a ſtated ferry between Coll and
Mull, 8 or 12 miles to the landing places. It is dangerous,
on account of rapid currents at Loch-Iothurn and the point
of Caileach in Mull, and difficult of accefs to the harbours.
There is no ſtated ferry between Tiry and Mull. The ſhort-
eft diftance from land to land is 21 miles; but above 30 be-
tween the ufual landing places. The fare for a flout boat
and hands here, is from 12s, to 15 s. For travelling cor-
refpondence and markets, there is great need of a packet be-
tween thefe ifles and Mull, eſpecially if Tobermory, the.
neareft poft office town, increafes. It is to be hoped, when
the
A few of the common people ſpeak English They all
fpeak Gaelic, which has a greater fimilarity to the moſt ancient,
than to the modern nguages. And as it has little dependence
upon other languages, it may not be fo copious; but it has this
great advantage, that the lowest peafant eaſily comprehends
the higheft ftile.
of Tiry.
279
the Crinan canal will be finished, that there will be an in-
creafe of trade in all the weſtern ifles, and that then, inſtead
of afking a falary, fome may find it their intereft to apply
for leave to keep packets. The run from Tiry to Crinan,
by the weft fide of Mull, will be ſtraight, and hardly ex-
ceeding 90 miles. Such a packet would find her buſineſs
daily increafe, from coals, marble, fiſh, beef, potatoes, &c.
Church and Stipend.-There are three places of worship in
the parish. The ftipends hitherto have not exceeded 501.
together with 161. 13 s. 4 d. in lieu of a manfe, glebe, and
communion elements. There is alſo a falary of 331. 6s. 3d. gi-
ven to an Affiftant in Coll. The whole teinds of the parish, by
decreets 1726, 1729, and 1733, are 211 bolls victual, two-
thirds bear, and one-third oat meal, together with 2941. 5 s.
6 d. Scotch. The ipfa corpora ftipend, or tenth part, was ta-
ken up fo late as 1752. There is now a process of augmen-
tation commenced. At Sorbie in Tiry was the mother church
of the deanry of the ifles.
Advantages and Difadvantages.-The only advantages we
can be faid to have, are, that the proprietors of thefe ifles
have always manifefted an inclination that their tenants should
live comfortably; that our lands, though impoverished, are ve-
ry improveable; and that the filling, if encouraged and attend-
ed to, may be very confiderable. The circumftances of not get-
ting falt without great plague and danger, and the markets turn-
ing out badly, when the firft attempts were made, have difcour-
aged the natives; whereas, in their fituation, they require not
only the countenance of the law, but even aid, at firft, to pur-
chafe lines, harpoons, &c. It is neceffary alfo to improve
the harbours. For this purpoſe, many veffels that frequent
the ifland would chearfully pay a fmall anchorage, even with-
out
586
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_029.txt
SCHOOLING AND FORMAL EDUCATION
.W. Craig Davidson
SOCIAL COOPERATION
--
INTELLECTUAL COMPETITION
Based on an individual's sensitivity to and concernment for the qualitative
intensification and extensiveness of his own awareness and formed by a
configuration of learning through training, conceptualization, and realization,
legally approved schools and formal educational institutions are the systematic
moral commitments of society by which the student is presented with an
opportunity for conscious involvement with the ever-flowing content and
controvertible structure of the varied areas of study that serve to enable the
less mature not only to attend rationally to the composition of himself by the
attainment of:
Vocational proficiency and social participation competency inculcated by
the training process that is inherent in the nature of schooling;
Self-affirmation, self-acceptance and societal confidence through the initial
formal educational areas of the behavioral, biological and social sciences;
Ego transcendence and social responsibility by virtue of the influence of
both the Humanities and a cognizance of the universality of those personal
values held dear by all varieties of mankind as made evident by the content
of the mass communication media (a content which is at once a propagator
and a resultant of the confluent cultural drift of the world's societies);
and
A sound critical appraisal of both the relatively immediate and the
consequent effects on society and thus on himself of not only scientific,
engineering, and technological exertion, per se, but, prior to other than
experimental and delimited implementation, the often irremediable results
thereof;
but formal education also serves to enable the student, in his cognitive, and
often non-rational, efforts to make self-purpose, self-expression, and
experience comprehensible to the mind, consciously to construct and to enlarge
upon a conversationally justifiable philosophy of life and of death%; a philosophy
that performs the dual function of having not only a rather immediate
psychologically sophisticating and sociologically empathetic effect on the
embryonic personality gestalt of the individual but also engenders the somewhat
more difficult and more time-consuming process of producing, from the attitudinal
dimension of his own moral responsibility and authority, non-fearful humor, and
volitional self-transformation, a humane, fundamental integrity and a passionate,
humanistic social sensitivity and sensibility, as he earns additional maturity.
587A
MCNEIL-SECTION_I-CHAPTER_III_page_030.txt
683
280
Statistical Account
out the trouble of an act of Parliament. Humanity will feel
for our difmal fituation without a Surgeon. The want of a
proper mill is a heavy grievance, and the loſs of ſeveral hun-
dred pounds Sterling. We are in great need of markets, and
cafier communication with towns; and alſo of a village and
manufactures within ourſelves, to occupy our fuperfluous
hands. We need much a change of feed, introducing of
green crops, incloſing, draining, and fubdividing ſmall farms.
How can we improve our farms without tradefmen, carts,
a better breed of horfes to expedite our labour, and ba-
nishing fo many hundred weak horſes. to rear black cattle in
their place? We ſpend the beſt ſeaſon of the year, which
fhould be otherwife ufefully employed, in providing fuel, in
ruining the face of our farms; while there is fuch an unequal
duty upon coals, and yet we muſt foon buy them at what-
ever price. Our loyal and vigorous youth are ready, at a
call, to ferve their King and country; and if any place in
Scotland can claim a preference, in an exemption from the
coal duty, it is this Atlantic Ifle.
This was written before the late repeal of the coal duty.
Statistical Account
281
PARISH or KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.
(COUNTY AND SYNOD OF ARGYLL, PRESBYTERY OP
MULL.)
By the Rev. Mr. DUGAL CAMPBELL.
Name, Situation, and Extent.
☐ HE feveral parishes into which the iſland of Mull
was divided in times of Popery, were all united
at the Reformation, and called the parish of Mull. It
was then a part of the prefbytery of Lorn. About the
time of the Revolution, all that part of Mull N. of the
Tarbart or Ifthmus at Arofs was erected into a pariſh,
called the parish of Kilninian. The reſt of the iſland of
Mull continued to be one pariſh for upwards of 40 years
after this period, and was called the parish of Rofs. But
being too extenfive a charge, a new pariſh was erected,
called the parish of Torafay. What remained was in
writings called the parish of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen,
from two places of worſhip, the one in Airdmeanach,
called Kilfinichen, and the other in Rofs, called Kilvi-
ceuen.;
