EUN. Heroes of the Revolution"
White Marsh, Stillwater, and at
discharged from service at Val-
red two and one half years. He
riously served in the battle of
rty years. He moved to North
County Tennessee, a short time
that time as between sixty and
daamily but gave no names.
at home and was himself living
HOOD
He
utionary pension while living in
1 he was 76 years of age.
listed in the service in 1777 in
aptain Downey. Ile substituted
ac Wilson's company. He was
Colonel Charles Robertson and
ted for Adam Hall in Captain
Phifer's regiment and served.
olonel Holmes in the battle of
King's Mountain. Captain John
Cleveland are mentioned in his
NDSAY
for pension for revolutionary
County. Tenn., August 28, 1832,
He was born in 1762 In Fred-
in Newberry, South Carolina, he
Smith's South Carolina company.
apany of Captain John Lindsay,
r July, 1780, again in Captain
ohn Lyle's South Carolina regi-
Husgrove's Mills, Fish Dam Ford,
in the Siege of Ninety-six from
ista and while there he was in
Eutaw Springs. He served until
in Newberry. South Carolina,
son County, Tennessee.
HEL MARTIN
1
Martin, applied for revolution-
ne County, Tenn., in February,
and therefore born in 1764.
She
in a North Carolina regiment
and was in the battles of King's
She married Salathiel Martin
The Secretary of North Caro-
served in the Revolution as a
JAMES MCBRIDE
MCNABB
James MeBride applied for revolutionary pension while residing
in Lincoln County, Tenn., in October, 1832. He was born in August,
1750, in County Down Ireland, whence he emigrated to America
settling first in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. He moved to Guil.
ford County, North Carolina, in 1771. He lived there until 1780
when he went to the Tennessee country He resided princimally in
Williamson County but later lived in Lincoln County. He enlisted
in Guilford County, North Carolina, and served under Captain George
Davidson and Colonel Francis Nash in the First North Carolina regi
ment. He was captured by the British but escaped.
WILLIAM MCFERRIN
William McFerrin appled for revolutionary pension while living:
in Tipton County, Tenn., in 1832. He was born agout 1757 and died
in 1845. He enlisted in Virginia Troops in Aurusta County, Virginia.
where he then resided He moved to Tennessee after the Revolution.
He married Jane Laughlin. Among their children were: Eleanor,
who married Colin Campbell, and Rev. James McFerrin, born 1784.
died 1840, who married in 1804 Jane Campbell Berry.
William McFerrin was living with Colin Campbell in 1832.
CAPTAIN DAVID MCNABB
Captain David McNabb's widow, Elizabeth McNabb, applied for
revolutionary pension, based on his service, while she lived in Meigs
County, Tennessee, in 1837, when she was 79 years of age. She died inc Mirin
CTN June 20, 181.9 buR IN MYNATT Savid McNabb entered the service
while living in Washington County, North Carolina, in the section
which became Carter County, Tenn. He raised a company of militia.
in Washington County, in June, 1780, and was elected captain He
served in two tours one under Colonel Robinson and one under
Colonel John Sevier and was engaged against the Indians.
He as
sisted in the destruction of their towns. He served another tour of
three months in 1781 under Colonel John Sevier during which his
company marched into South Carolina and assisted in capturing a
number of British soldiers. Captain McNabb returned to Washing
ton County and continued to reside there until his death, May 3.
1826.
He married in the year 1778, Elizabeth Taylor They were mar-
ried by "Parson Graham in the Stone Meeting Horse," In Aust
County, Virginia. They moved to Washington County to reside. She
stated that her broher. Andrew Taylor, moved from Augusta County.
to Washington County and resided near them. Andrew Taylor was
76 years of age in 1937 when he resided in Washington County.
Note: Captain McNabb's company marched to King's Mountain
following the other Mountain men by twenty-four hours, it is said.
and reached the site of the battle one hour after it was ended.
Andrew Taylor, Elizabeth Taylor McNabb's brother, was a meniber
of the well known Taylor family of Washington County. His fathe
was Isaac Taylor. For this family see, the Taylor Family of Ten-
nessee, Lookout Publishing Company.
Elizabeth Taylors father
grand father
was Anchow Toyles, Sr.
her brother was Andrew. gr.
139
455120
4/15/91