strengthening for me today. In the person of a Hew ingland
man's (Phillips) little child, that was obliged to travel
from Dansbury back to the North River, I had the Child Jesus
before me, as He was obliged to make a pilgrimage while still
in swaddling clothes.
December 26. In Benjanin Smith's house I felt that I could
read aloud the London discourse on Saving Faith. And wheti
I came to the house of lionricus Schoonhofer and his brother
Niclas and others arrived there also, I was encouraged to
conduct a meeting, using as a text. Heb. : 14-18. How the
Delaware had risen dangerously, and many tree trunks Poul-
ed down the strong current. Yet I risked crossing In Thome
Brink's canos, and cane safely to the house of Gortrecht.
There the Bushkill was so high that I could go no furthere
'On the way I had planned & meeting, and the word ( Glory to
God in the highest I Peace on Earth, Good-will toward men,)
was in my mind. Accordingly I conducted a service for the
families there, who had heard Brother Shaw. Some others
were present, - as Johanien Kasselman, from Schochery,
(Schoharie) and a New England ran, a peddler, and an old
Tachicasa, who understood & 11ttle English. Gortrecht's
little son, four years of age, named Flight, 1stened atten-
tively to what I told him concerning the Lamb of God.
others were friendly.
The
'
December 27. Rudolphus Schoonhover came early with horses
and helped me across the Bushkill." In his hottie 1 beght to
sing "Would you be well all over, etc.", and spoke about
this matter. Afterwards I talked with the youth Rieles
Brinck. I went on and stopped at the home of Isaac Jack,
(This name should be Tack,
F. R. H.)
opposed to us ; then i called at the house of Susana hay's
who is generally
neighbor, a High German named Schmidt, From Reuwied on the
Rhine, whose wife is ill. At the home of the smith Reliab,
whom I had met in liquor on the 19th of this month, round
an open ear, and I could tell him that it was not necessary
that he should be such a slave, if he would love and accept
the Saviour. Afterward I reflected on the word of the Ba-
viour, concerning the preaching of the Gospel to every
creature. Then I was taken to the sick Joseph kheele),
where Schoomacher's people helped me across the creek.
this I was thankful to the Saviour, and this I arrived in
safety at Brodhead's. There I heard ritch concrming the
Brethren Reutz and Okely, and was glad that they had reached.
Bethlehem safely before this high flood.
For
December 28. This night I dreamed much about our dearest
Johannes, and it was pleasant when I awoke.
of his dearest Benigna (daughter of Zuzendorf and wire of
J. also Thought
de Watteville,) whose birthday two years ago had been for
us a notable pilgrim day, from the ship to Lewistown.
thanked the Saviour for her birth and 11e on earth, und
L
spent the day at Brodhead's house in singing, reading aloud,
conversation, and silent prayer, until evening, when the
creek had so far fallen that. I could cross on a tall horse.
I was happy to be in my little room again, where I could
commune with the gracious Larib and rest.
soul and the would of these people might be flooded self.h
I played that my
grace.
33.
526K