Does anyone really believe that Wm. McNabb embarked for the
Colonies with five children having an age spread of from
about 5 or 6 to 12 or 13? This at a time when passengers
furnished their own food, water and sanitary items. If he
did, it seems more than likely that his name and the names of
his children would be listed in three places; one, on the
list of those embarking at the port be it England, Scotland
Ireland or whereever; two, on the passenger list of the ship
itself; three, as a new arrival at some port in the Colonies.
With literally hundreds of researchers seeking such information,
over the years, if any list, or partial list existed, it would
have been found long before now. And the reason such information
has not been found is because all of the persons we are seeking
were born in or near Monroe County, Penn.
Another factor to be considered: Baptiste'--Does it seem even
possible that a Scotsman in Scotland would name his first born
son Baptist, a name usually reserved for a religious group.
While one cannot be absolutely certain, Baptiste', would be a
name that comes from the common Latin spoken by the Roman
soldiers in France, Spain, Portugal, Austria & Italy. It was
probably the first name of a Moravian missionary who was
admired by Wm. McNabb and his wife, Betty Aiken. The entire
Moravian Missionary Diaries is available to one at the Monroe
County, Penn., Historical Society or at the Virginia State
Library, Richmond, Virginia. The latter being a copy that I
donated to the State Library. The few pages that are included
with this article, I have extracted for the purpose of
identification of both McNabb and his occupation, i.e., smith.
I do not know about right now but I do know that from about
1675 to 1775 there were no persons named Aiken within 200 miles
of Glendochart. OR if there were persons of that name, they
were amazingly adept at escaping the written record of such
name. I have been unable to find a sept with a name even close
to Aiken, in all of Scotland. However, on extract page 68,
a list of the inhabitants of Wind Gap (Penn.), shows Gideon
van Aken living a few miles from Wm. McNabb. And as most
genealogists come to realize, slight differences in the
spelling of names is more the norm than otherwise. One can
imagine all sorts of scenarios about Wm. McNabb finding Betty
elsewhere and marrying her; however, where are the records of
not only such an event but the births of the children seem to
be also unrecorded. Finally, why is there no record of the death
and burial of Betty Aiken, in Scotland?
Having taught Advanced Research Techniques as a graduate school
professor, at the University of Colorado in Boulder, I am well
acquainted with the maxim "One can draw no inference from
silence." With that in mind concerning the above observations
about the absence of Wm. McNabb & family records in Scotland,
let us examine the evidence for such residence in Monroe County,
Penn. circa 1700 to 1747-48.
2.
* *