"July 18. The text of yesterday impelled me to visit several
homes, and it comforted me. At Francis Jones' it was notable
for me to hear that his youngest daughter, who is six weeks
old, before Br. Pyrlaeus baptized her, had always been restless
and cranky, afterwards would always lie cheerfully and quietly
by herself. For John McMichael's house I wished peace and
Mack and
blessings, and the footsteps of the Brethern Martin
others, who had formerly been there, refreshed me. At John
Hillman's I felt good also. Here a bridge has been built for
Br. Joseph's sake, when they heard that he was coming. At
Joseph Hayn's (Haines) I couldn't do much. Then I went home and
read homilies, in preparation for Walpack.
July 19. Early in the morning, I went from "Sideburn" (Br.
Burnside's little cabin in Dansbury,) to Walpack. (Walpack is an
Indian word signifying "a good fat land.") On the way I
reflected on the Trinity, that they might make me capable as a
herald of the Gospel. It was very impressive for me that the
Atonement had been for such poor sinners. I visited the smith,
William McNab, but I could talk to him only about the harvest.
Afterwards I visited at McDowell's and Susanna Ray's, and after
some discourse on external matters, I could easily say something
about the rest and peace in Jesus. Most of the way today was
occupied with the Saviour only, and my marriage, and the Brethren
who had moistened this route with their sweat and sown it with
prayer.....I went to my lodging a mile away, after I announced
the preaching service at Pawlin's Kill, through a traveler at
the ferry. I swept out the church and sleeping place, and was very
happy in contemplation. The eldest son,-Abraham of Benjamin Smith's
brother, John, from Virginia, came to me. He is 23 years old, and
lives at Shannadoe, (Shenandoah, Va.) in the Irish settlement. His
father is captain of the militia there. They have never seen one of
the Brethren, but have heard many bad reports about them. He will
return in a week or two. It is far beyond the Potomac."
The above quote is from page 3 of the Moravian Missionary Diaries,
an unpublished MSS, written circa 1730 to 1750. I am responsible
for the underlining.
First, has been identified a William McNab as a smith, living in
Dansbury, Monroe County, Penn.
Second. This McDowell is quite likely to be either the person
himself or a relative of the Capt. MCDowell of Augusta County,
Virginia in whose company of militia, James McNabb, son of William
McNabb, served as a Cadet circa 1745. This information is contained
on a receipt for service rendered given to Wm. McNabb for his son and is a
matter of record in the Draper files.
Third. Abraham Smith's apparently permanent move from Dansbury to
Shenandoah valley is a clear indication of a social connection
between the two populated areas.
Fourth. Irish settlement. This term was used extensively to denote both
Scottish and Scots-Irish individuals and/or families.
Fifth. Additional references are made to Wm. McNab on pages 12,30,&
33 of the MSS. Said Moravian Missionary MSS is available from the
Monroe County Historical Association, 900 Main St., Stroudsburg,
PA 18360--phone 717/421 7703, with some charge for making the some
100 plus pages of the entire MSS.
3.