5003 20
IN SEARCH OF WILLIAM MCNABB-
--by Walter Craig Davidson
First, I should like to point out that after 45 years of
researching the McNabb clan, I have never found even the
slightest shred of evidence or documentation that Wm.
McNabb, father of Baptiste & the other children, came from
Scotland or, indeed, had anything whatsoever to do with
Scotland. Further, I have not seen even a pretense to such
documentation in the research results written by anyone else.
Thus, before one disagrees with the following account of
Wm. McNabb's history, let them present a better documented
research result.
The account of Wm. McNabb living, marrying and moving from
Glendochart, Scotland to Virginia ca. 1740's has never seemed
valid to me. (WCD) If he had left the children and emmigrated
alone, it would have made more sense, as he could have always
sent for them or gone back after them. But to take off to the
Colonies with five children ranging in ages from 5 or 6 to 12
or 13, just never seemed to me to be what a prudent Scot would
do; especially just after the death of his wife, Betty Aiken,
or Aken, McNabb. I have evidence, presented in the following
pages, that there is more than a possibility that Wm. McNabb,
he of the 1749 land deed in Augusta Co., Virginia, came from
Dansbury (Now Stroudsburg) Monroe Co., Penn., where his father
Wm. McNabb, Senior, was a blacksmith* ca. 1720's. Also in the
Lower Smithfield Township of Dansbury, Delaware Valley,
Shawnee, (Bethlehem), and Wind Gap, was Gideon van Aken, who
lived in Wind Gap and was probably the father of the first
wife of Wm. McNabb, Junior, Betty Aiken or Aken.
**
Possibly, the McNabbs of Dansbury, Penn. (Now Stroudsburg) descend
from James Micknab (McNabb) who sailed from Downes, England
December 8, 1651, aboard the "John & Sarah"--Master John Greene
and landed in Boston, Mass., before 24 February 1652. James
went to work for the Lynn Iron Works. Keep in mind that under
the Guild system, the McNabb Clan had a long history as armorers*
This at a time in history when the occupation of the father
fairly well determined the occupation of the sons; however, not
exclusively so. In any case, 70 years after James McNabb went
to work in the iron works, Wm. McNabb, Senior, was a blacksmith,
in Monroe County, Penn..
**I am endebted to Carol Fortenbacher, Nunica, Mi., whose
research established the fact of the McNabb Clan as armorers,
in Scotland.
At a time when it was necessary to execute an Oath of Impor-
tation in Orange County, Virginia, in order to obtain a grant
of land in Virginia, not one but several exhaustive searches
of the records of Orange County, Va. failed to provide the
researcher with any evidence that Wm. McNabb had ever made
such an oath. Yet, he received a grant in 1749 in Augusta Co.,
Virginia. Thus there is reason to believe that he was born in
the Colonies, was a white male citizen, and did not need an Oath,
in order to receive a grant. There are records of Oaths given by
immigrants, dated both before and after the 1749 date of Wm.
McNabb's grant but none for him.
%