Another important event for the Cherokees, shared
with other Southeast peoples, was the game of
lacrosse. This game was played between clans from
the same villages as well as between clans from dif-
ferent villages (see "Choctaw"). Chunkey, or chenco, a
game played by throwing sticks at rolling stones, was
also popular.
With regard to political and social organization, the
many Cherokee villages, about 100, were allied in a
loose confederacy. Within each village, there were two
chiefs. The White Chief, also called the Most Beloved
Man, helped the villagers make decisions concerning
farming, lawmaking, and disputes between in-
dividuals, families, or clans. He also played an im-
portant part in religious ceremonies along with the
Cherokee shamans. The Red Chief gave advice con-
cerning warfare. One such decision was choosing who
would be the War Woman, an honored woman chosen
to accompany braves on their war parties. The War
Woman did not fight, but helped feed the men, offered
them council, and decided which prisoners would live
or die. The Red Chief also was in charge of the lacrosse
games, which the Cherokees called the "little war."
From First Contact Through the Colonial Years
Early explorers to encounter the Cherokees were
impressed by their highly advanced culture.
Hernando de Soto, the Spanish explorer who traveled
throughout much of the Southeast, was the first
European to come into contact with the Cherokees,
when he arrived in their territory from the south in _
1540. In later years, occasional French traders worked
their way into Cherokee lands from the north. But the
Tribal Transformation
Still, despite these various setbacks, the Cherokees
rebuilt their lives. They learned from the settlers
around them, adopting new methods of farming and
business. They now were faithful allies of the
Americans, even fighting with them under Andrew
Jackson in the Creek War of 1813. A Cherokee chief
named Junaluska personally saved Jackson's life from
a tomahawk-swinging Creek warrior at the Battle of
Horseshoe Bend. In 1820, the Cherokees established
among themselves a republican form of government,
similar to that of the United States. In 1827, they
founded the Cherokee Nation under a constitution
with an elected principal chief, a senate, and a house
of representatives.
Much of the progress among the Cherokees resulted
from the work of a man named Sequoyah, also known
as George Gist. In 1809, he began working on a written
version of the Cherokee language so that his people
could have a written constitution, official records,
books, and newspapers like the whites around them.
Over a 12-year period, he devised a written system
that reduced the Cherokee language to 85 characters
representing all the different sounds. Sequoyah is the
only person in history to singlehandedly invent an en-
tire alphabet (or a syllabary, because the characters
represent syllables). In 1821, he finished his vast
project. In 1827, the Cherokees wrote down their con-
stitution. And in 1828, the first Cherokee newspaper,
the Cherokee Phoenix, was published in their language.
most frequent Cherokee-white contacts were with En- The Trail of Tears
glish traders from the east. The traders began appear-
ing regularly after England permanently settled
Virginia, starting with the Jamestown colony of 1607
and then, before long, the Carolina colonies.
In the French and Indian Wars, lasting from 1689 to
1763, the Cherokees generally sided with the English
against the French, providing warriors for certain en-
gagements. In these conflicts, they sometimes found
themselves fighting side by side with other Indian
tribes who had been their traditional enemies, such as
the Iroquois.
In 1760, however, the Cherokees revolted against
their English allies in the Cherokee War. The
precipitating incident involved a dispute over wild
horses in what is now West Virginia. A group of
Cherokees on their journey home from the Ohio
River, where they had helped the English take Fort
Duquesne, captured some wild horses. Some Virginia
frontiersmen claimed the horses as their own and
attacked the Cherokees, killing 12. Then they sold the
horses and collected bounties on the Cherokee scalps,
which they claimed they had taken from Indians allied
to the French.
On learning of this incident, various Cherokee
bands, led by Chief Oconostota, began a series of raids
on white settlements. The Cherokees also managed to
capture Fort Loudon in the Great Valley of the
Appalachians. The war lasted two years, before the
British troops defeated the Cherokees by burning their
villages and crops. Even then, the insurgents con-
tinued to fight from their mountain hideouts for a
period of time. Eventually, war-weary and half-
starving, the Cherokees surrendered. In the peace
pact, the Cherokees were forced to give up a large por-
tion of their eastern lands lying closest to British set-
tlements.
In spite of the Cherokee War, the Cherokees
supported the English against the rebels in the
American Revolution of 1775-83. Most of their support
consisted of sporadic attacks on outlying American
settlements. In retaliation, North Carolina militiamen
invaded the Cherokees' territory and again destroyed
villages and demanded land cessions.
During the colonial years, the Cherokees also suf-
fered from a number of epidemics. The worst
outbreaks from the dreaded smallpox that killed so
many native peoples-occurred in 1738 and 1750.
Yet, despite the new Cherokee way of life, the set-
tlers wanted the Indians' lands. The discovery of gold
near Dahlonega, Georgia, helped influence white
officials to call for the relocation of the Cherokees,
along with other eastern Indians. In 1830, President
Andrew Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act to
relocate the eastern tribes to an Indian Territory west
of the Mississippi River.
Despite the fact that the principal chief of the
Cherokees, the great orator John Ross, passionately
argued and won the Cherokee case before the
Supreme Court of the United States; despite the fact
that Junaluska, who had saved Jackson's life,
personally pleaded with the president for his people's
land; despite the fact that such great Americans as
Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, and Davy Crockett
supported the Cherokee claims; still, President Jack-
son ordered the Indians' removal. And so began the
Trail of Tears.
The state of Georgia began forcing the Cherokees to
sell their lands for next to nothing. Cherokee homes
and possessions were plundered. Whites destroyed
the printing press of the Cherokee Phoenix because it
published articles opposing Indian removal. Soldiers
began rounding up Cherokee families and taking
them to internment camps in preparation for the
journey westward. With little food and unsanitary
conditions at these hastily built stockades, many
Cherokees died. In the meantime, some Cherokees es-
caped to the mountains of North Carolina, where they
successfully hid out from the troops.
The first forced trek westward began in the spring of
1838 and lasted into the summer. On the 800-mile trip,
the Cherokees suffered because of the intense heat.
The second mass exodus took place in the fall and win-
ter of 1838-39 during the rainy season; the wagons
bogged down in the mud, and then there were
freezing temperatures and snow. On both journeys,
many Indians died from disease and inadequate food
and blankets. The soldiers drove their prisoners on at a
cruel pace, not even allowing them to properly bury
their dead. Nor did they protect the Cherokees from
attacks by bandits.
During the period of confinement, plus the two
separate trips, about 4,000 Cherokees died, almost a
439