380
DAWN OF TENNESSEE VALLEY
Virginia and beyond. The matter of salt presented a
grave problem to the Wataugans; there were no salt
springs or licks in the valley where they were located.
Fortunately there was such a lick above the settlements
and there about 1773 salt was made from water im-
pregnated by a sub-surface deposit of solid rock salt.
This was at the present Saltville, in Virginia, and not
far from the main road above described.
Mills for the grinding of grain also began to appear.
That of Baptist McNabb on Buffalo Creek of Watauga
seems to have been the first; but it was soon followed
by that of John Sharp, Jr., near the mouth of one of
the creeks of Holston, in the limits of the present county
of Sullivan.
The markets from which the merchants in the settle-
ments obtained stocks of goods were Philadelphia,
Baltimore and the towns in the lower (northern part)
of the Shenandoah Valley, Winchester, Strasburg, and
Staunton. It is probable that these Virginia towns
were chief sources, as dealers there had closer touch
with the western folk.' Goods were hauled to Win-
chester and Strasburg by wagons from ports on
Chesapeake Bay, the distance from which to Win-
chester was about eighty miles, through Ashby's Gap
of the Blue Ridge and across Ashby's Ferry of the
Shenandoah.
Late in September or early in October, 1773, Daniel
Boone with his own and five other families passed
Said by an early writer to be more than 175 feet thick. Wells 200
feet deep were later sunk, tapping the salt water. This event meant
much to the people of the Upper Old Southwest; and the salt works
figured large in the development of Tennessee's commerce in succeed-
ing generations.
Among these were Alexander Machir of Strasburg, with whom
Andrew Greer and Wm. Bean dealt, 1775: Consult, Malone, "Fal-
mouth and the Shenandoh Trade" in Am. Hist. Review, XL, 693-703.
north from Unicoi
# Now (1989) Buffalo break un
cty to the Watauga River in Carter County, Tenn., just west
of Elizabethton, Tenn.
AND TENNESSEE HISTORY
381
through the settlements, on the way to the Kentucky
country to form a small colony in those dangerous
wilds. As the party was approaching Cumberland
Gap, on October 10th a group in the rear was attacked
by Indians, jealous of the white invasion of their hunt-
ing grounds. Five men were killed, including Boone's
eldest son, James. This so discouraged the adven-
turers that they gave over the attempt and fell back
to Clinch River, where Boone resided for some time.
To the frustrated party it seemed that the attack and
slaughter was by Shawnees, and was precursor of a
general uprising by that and other western tribes.
Indeed, throughout 1773 the dread of such an up-
rising had hung like a pall over the inhabitants on the
western frontiers of Virginia, and this unprovoked
massacre was to them a harbinger of evil. The western
tribes were sullen, and at Detroit were trading their
peltry for powder and ball.
The fore-gleam of war did not, however, give pause
to the land-hungry and alert leaders of Virginia. They
continued active in efforts to secure choice lands in the
Tennessee region. Patrick Henry, Wm. Byrd, III'
John Page and Colonel William Christian, brother-
in-law of Henry, planned to purchase of the Chero-
kees a large boundary in that region, and Christian sent
William Kennedy of the Valley of Virginia to treat
with the Indians. Nothing came of the scheme."
Colonel John Donelson, of Pittsylvania county, after
running the ministerial line set about to acquire lands
in the neighborhood of the line, and in June, 1774, he
ran the Virginia-North Carolina boundary line due
"The persistence of Byrd in efforts to secure Tennessee lands is
to be remarked.
Calendar Va. St. Papers, I, 208, 288, 303.
515