240
THE INDIAN FORTS
the farmers in gathering meir marvests, with his limited force
During the month of July, until its abrup: termination
July 21st, we find numerous entries in his journal of detach
ments sent to guard the harvesters. The available soldiers
however, were certainly too few for the duties required of
them, and we can readily understand the appeal for more aid
During the Conference with the Indians at Easton in July,
1757, when a treacherous attack on the Governor was feared,
Col. Weiser sent in haste to Fort Hamilton and Fort Norris
for a detachment of troops to augment the town guard. This
also tended to weaker, temporarily, the force at the former
point.
After this the inroads of the Indians became less frequent
Continuous efforts were made to bring about peace with the
various tribes, and the Delawares especially were generally
won over to the British side. As a consequence it was prac
tically determined to virtually abandon the Forts at the Mini-
sink region, and, in the Spring of 1758, Lieut. Hyndshaw, then
in command of Fort Hamilton, was ordered south of the moun-
tains to Teed's Block House near Wind Gap. Hearing of this
contemplated action the settlers sent the following petition to
Gov. Denny:
"The Petition of the Distressed Inhabitants of Lower Smith-
field Township, in the County of Northampton, most Humbly
Sheweth:
That your Honours petitioners are under some appreben-
sions that the Company of Soldiers, Commanded by Janies
Hyndshaw, are to be removed from their present Station, and
of our being left in a Defenceless posture; That your Petition.
ers have had Intelligence of a Body of upwards of Three
Hundred French and Indians that are coming Down to Dis-
tress the Frontiers of this province, and as this part at present
seems the most Defenceless, it is very probable that we shall
be the first attacked; That your petitioners have at present
but 12 men allowed by the province, which we Humbly appre
hend Can afford us but little assistance; and further, we Hum.
bly Conceive that in case we were attacked by so large a party
we must inevitably fall an easy prey to our Cruel Savage
Enemy, unless your Honour is pleased to afford us a Reinforce
OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.
297
which we flatter ourselves we are assured of, your Hor
Having Hitherto since your Succession to this province,
dised a very Fatherly Care over us, for which we return
Most Hearty thanks; and further, we being well assured
✓ next to Divine Providence your Honour is our protector.
Submit our Circumstances to your Superior Knowledge
✓ for us, who as Loyall Subjects are Determined with
Honour's assistance to stand against any Enemy that
attempt to invade us. and your Honour's petitioners as in
Bound Shall ever pray."
OD Dupui,
McMichael,
el Shoemaker,
liam Clark,
mnel Dupui,
Amel Broadhead,
Abraham Mullux.
olas Miekle,
Sonard Weeser,
Cambden,
rederick Vanderliss.
mes Hilman,
ohn Hilman,
William Smith,
ohn McDoull,
William McNab.
Edward Connor.
Robert Hanah,
Daniel McIntosh.
Michael Shouer,
John Williamson,
James Garlinghousing.
John Higgins.
Isaac Flack,
Enoch Freeland.
John Drake.
Jeremiah Flemmer.
Adam Snall,
Francis Delong.
(Penn. Arch.. iii. p. 357.)
These alarms were unfortunately based on something more
than mere rumor. The Mohawk Indians were still inclined
O side with the French and in June, 1758, had formed quite a
party to attack the Minisink settlement. Teedyuscung and the
Delawares endeavored to persuade them from their purpose,
ucceeding, however, only in part. Some of the enemy ad-
hered to their purpose, and committed depredations above the
cinity of Fort Hamilton, which then seems to have been
Without a garrison. To the credit of the settlers it must be
said that from the very outbreak of hostilities in 1755 they
showed a determination to defend themselves and not give
✓ way to the Indians, perhaps more so than at most other locali-
ties, and this too notwithstanding the fact that the protec
19°
5262