Family of
Wife of
Nathaniel Taylor Mc Habbe,
Eleanor mc Cobbin
MACCUBBIN
Immigrant John McCubbin born ca 1640 in Scotland; will dated 21 Sept 1685, will
proved 31 July 1686 the year of his death in Anne Arundell Co., Maryland. John1
arrived in Anne Arundell in 1659, where in 1665, he married a daughter of Samuel
Howard. She died in ca 1670, at the birth of their third child and only dau,
Elizabeth, which was probably the mother's name, which is verifiably unknown.
1John's other children by his first wife, the Howard girl, were John² and Samuel.
John McCubbin was born in Anne Arundell Co., Md. prior to 1677, ca 1666, and
died there 2 Dec 1736. He2married Ann Howard (according to the Abridged Compendium)
and they had 9 children, one of whom was William, Sr., the 2nd son and 4th child,
who was born in Anne Arundell, Md. ca 1695 and who married Nellie Griffith.
Wm. Sr., and Nellie Griffith had a son, William Jr., who, ca 1750, married
Eleanor Conley. Wm. Jr. and Eleanor, before the Revolutionary War, moved from
Baltimore Co Md/Pittsylvania Co., Virginia, where they settled on Rutledge
Creek of the Dan River.
William McCubbin Jr. & Eleanor Conley McCubbin had a son born in Baltimore
Co. Md in 1752, whom they named Zachariah. Zachariah McCubbin married Sarah Lane
in Pittsylvania Co., Virginia in 1772. Sarah Lane was the dau of John Fuller Lane
and his wife Elizabeth Cloud, dau of Isaac Cloud. Sarah Lane McCubbin was born
in Lunenburg Co. Virginia in 1754. Zachariah McCubbin was a Captain in the Town
Battalion, Annapolis, Md during the Revolutionary War.
Zachariah McCubbin and his wife Sarah Lane McCubbin had 9 children. The 6th
child and 3rd dau was Ellender (Eleanor). Ellender McCubbin married Nathaniel
Taylor McNabb in 1805 in Carter Co., Tenn. After the Rev War, Zachariah and
Sarah McCubbin moved to Claiborne Co., Tenn where he died in 1834 and is buried
in the Old Irish Cemetery just outside of Tazewell, Tenn. (Possibly both are
buried there.)
See Family Group Sheet for Nathaniel Taylor McNabb and Ellender McCubbins
McNabb. Nathaniel Taylor McNabb was son of David McNabb, grandson of Baptist
McNabb and greatgrandson of William McNabb, the Immigrant from Scotland, who
owned land in Augusta Co., Virginia in 1749 before moving To the Watauga area of
Washington Co./Carter Co. North Carolina/Tenn where he died, ca 1789.
Walter Craig Davidson's lineage from Revolutionary War Patriots, includes:
1. Zachariah McCubbin who married Sarah Lane.
2. John Fuller Lane who married Elizabeth Cloud.
3. Andrew Taylor, Sr. who married Elizabeth Wilson.
4. Isaac Cloud from Henry Co. Va. name of wife is unknown.
5. Baptist McNabb who married Katrin or Katherine
???.
6. David McNabb who married Elizabeth Taylor.
Lineage also includes:
William Craig Davidson, son of Walter Craig Davidson & Doris Louise Buckner Davidson.
Tyler Craig Davidson and Tara Louise Davidson, children of William Craig Davidson.
and grandchildren of Walter Craig Davidson and Doris Louise Davidson.
* Research indicates that her name was
Deborah,
See Section II Jo Mc Cubbin, Lane, Cloud and
Taylor leniaga + documentation,
454