STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF HANSFORD
WILL
VGL
21 PAGE 55
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
That I, Birtie McNabb, of Hansford County, Texas, being of
sound and disposing mind and memory, and above the age of 21 years,
do make and publish this My Last Will and Testament, hereby revoking
any and all wills by me at any time heretofore made.
FIRST. I direct that all of my lawful debts shall be paid as
soon after my death as reasonably possible.
SECOND. I give, devise and bequeath all of my property of
every kind and description, real, personal, or mixed, wherever sit-
uated to my son, Warren McNabb, and my daughter, Viola Whitson, share
and share alike.
THIRD. Should either my son or daughter pre-decease me and
leave children, then the share of my property as would go to him or
her if living, as the case may be, shall go to the children of the
one so dying share and share alike. Should either my son or daughter
pre-decease me and leave no children, then the share of my property
as would go to him or her if living, as the case may be, shall go to
the survivor of them, but if there be no survivor, then all of my
property shall go to my grandchildren share and share alike.
FOURTH. I appoint my daughter, Viola Whitson, executrix of
my will and direct that no bond or other security shall be taken or
required of her as such executrix and that no other action shall be
had in the Probate Court in relation to the settlement of my estate
than the probating and recording of my will and the return into court
of an inventory, appraisement and list of claims of my estate.
FIFTH. I give to my executrix the express right, power and
authority to sell so much of my property as may be necessary to pay
my debts for such price as to her shall be deemed best. I direct that
my personal property shall be sold first for such purpose.
SIXTH. I give to my executrix the express right, power and
authority to lease any and all of my land and minerals which I may
own for oil, gas, and other mineral purposes for such price and upon
405