was a blacksmith and his son, William McNabb, Jr., was married to
Betty Aiken whose father was probably Gideon Van Aken, a member of
a well known French family of the Delaware River Valley. There is a
record of the marriage of Niclaes Westvaal to Sara Van Aken on
20 October 1712 at Kingston. Possibly a sister of Betty Aiken, whose
name, I believe, was not "Betty" but Elizabeth Van Aken, with "Betty"
being the familiar form of the proper name Elizabeth. Thus, when
Wm. McNabb, Jr., married Elizabeth Van Aken ca. 1720, it would not be
outside the Dutch naming pattern for them to name their first born son,
Babtist, a French name in honor of a French grandfather. The connection
established by this marriage and birth, is of no small import. For
the first time in some 48 years of McNabb family research, there is
now a link between William the father and Babtist the son. Before now
the only established link was based on rumor, habit and an absolute
void when it came to written, documented evidence.**The Draper files
established a documented relationship between William and his son,
James, but even the numerous references to Babtist McNabb contained
in Lyman Chalkley's official records, fail to mention any, and I mean,
any, relationship between William and Babtist. ALSO, we can now put to
rest, the endless verbal expressions of bafflement as to the origin
of what appeared to be a name connected with a religious body.
Of further importance, this linkage opens a whole new geographical
area for McNabb family research. Containing, as it does, the legal
and religious records dating back to the early 1600's, perhaps we
can more fully and completely document the Clan members and activities.
For the Kuykendalls, the Van Akens and the MCNABBS, the melting pot
syndrome that is the essence of America, began exceedingly early.
**
I believe the prepondance of evidence indicates that, as stated
in an earlier essay, Babtist had no son named William, thus the
William McNabb who witnessed Babtist's will was most certain to
have been Babtist's father.