Beginning w/page 677, this is the only document that I have found
That definitely shows the relationship of the Eastern Tenn
McHalls & the Tex.
678
as + Misssor McNabbs.
HISTORY OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS.
by Indians. It was in the fall of 1863 and while
at home he heard that the red men were on a
raid. That night all the family left the cabin
and went to a neighbor's a few miles away. The
following morning Mr. McNabb returned to the
house alone with a saddle horse which he hitched
in the yard. He was looking about the cabin
when he saw the red men and as he left the
house he discovered that he was almost sur-
rounded, but noticing a vacant space he mounted
his horse and made his escape. The Indians
helped themselves to whatever they wanted,
burned the house and all its contents and left
the family with only what they wore. The Indi-
ans then went to the next house, that of Mr.
Potter, but they, too, had gone to the Saunders
home where the McNabbs had taken refuge.
There they pillaged and burned the place, after
which they started for the Saunders' home, where
the settlers had congregated and were making
ready to fight. As the Indians approached Cap-
tain Bowland also came with a part of his fron-
tier company and a battle ensued, three white
men being killed, after which they were buried
in blankets. The killed among the Indians was
not known, for according to their custom they
carried off their dead. They continued on in
the direction of Gainesville and picked up a
large herd of horses with which they made
across the Red river. This was the only fight
with the Indians in which Mr. McNabb took part.
Owing to the unsettled condition of the coun-
try and the constantly threatened dangers, he re-
moved his family to Fannin county, where they
remained until after the war was over. All of
his personal property-horses, household goods,
clothing and provisions-had been taken and
either used or destroyed by the Indians and the
family were therefore in a sad plight. After set-
tling in Fannin county Mr. McNabb returned
to the army and joined his command in Arkansas
on the Red river, where the troops were en-
camped for the winter. The following spring
they started in pursuit of the Federal troops
which they followed to Camden, where a fight
had taken place, known as the Saline river en-
gagement. Later Mr. McNabb with his regiment
took part in the campaigns through Arkansas
and eventually reached Hempstead, Texas, where
news of Lee's surrender was received.
regiment then disbanded, its members returning
to their homes. Some time before they had been
dismounted and all were compelled to make their
Iway home as best they could, most of them cov-
ering the distance on foot. Mr. McNabb had
participated in many skirmishes and some hotly
The
418
contested battles but was never wounded nor
captured. He saw hard service and underwent
many deprivations and trials incident to warfare.
When hostilities were over he joined his fam-
ily in Fannin county and they soon afterward re-
turned to the old homestead in Cooke county in
1865. The conditions that met them would have
utterly discouraged many a man of less resolute
spirit, for he had everything to make and nothing
to lose, owing to the depredations of the Indians
and the devastation of war. He built a cabin,
made boards to cover it and for a short time
slept on the dirt floor. Later he obtained poles
which he inserted into holes bored into the logs.
in the corner of the cabin and also into a post
set in the ground and thus he made a bedstead.
The Indians continued their hostilities and depre-
dations for some time and Mr. McNabb remained
upon the farm until 1867, when he sold out and
removed to Missouri, but made no permanent
settlement in that state. He did freighting and
other such work as he could secure to make an
honest living and in the fall of 1870 returned
to Texas, locating in Grayson county, where he
rented land and carried on farming for seven
years. In 1877 he came to Montague county,
where he purchased land and yet makes
his home. He first became owner of two
hundred acres in the cross timber and built
thereon a small box-house. Within a short
time he had placed some of his land under
cultivation and as the years have gone by the
farm has become self-supporting and as his finan-
cial resources have increased he has added to
the property until he now owns six hundred and
forty acres. He has removed the house from its
original to its present site, has added to it and
remodeled it and now has a commodious frame
residence. There are also good barns and out-
buildings on the place, a wind-mill and water for
all purposes. There is likewise a bearing orchard
and the farm is a well improved property with
two hundred acres under cultivation devoted
to the raising of various crops. He has also
given considerable attention to stock raising and
has had some very fine horses. As the years
passed by he prospered in his undertakings and
now that his children are all married and he
and his wife are left alone they are spending the
evening of life in the enjoyment of the fruits of
their former toil, Mr. McNabb having rented his
farm lands and retired from active labor.
It was on the 30th of December, 1860, that
Mr. McNabb was married to Miss Eliza A.
Chapman, who was born in Knox county, Ten-
nessee, in 1843. Her parents were Aciel P. and
1
Y