NOW WE KNOW ABOUT BABTISTE,
OR BABTIST, OR BABTIS, etc.
by Walter Craig Davidson,
I quote from page 146 of the HISTORY OF THE KUYKENDALL FAMILY,
by George Benson Kuykendall, M.D., Kilham Co., Portland, Oregon,
1919, as follows:
"The Van Auken family, who lived in the Machackemeck section of
the Minisink country, and across the Delaware below in Pennsyl-
vania, came from Marinus Van Aken and Pieternella des Prez. The
name Van Auken looks in the present form to be Dutch, but is most
surely of French origin. It came from the old city of Aachen in
France, commonly called Aux la Chapelle, from where the ancestors
of the family came. The Dutch Van must have been substituted for
the French equivalent, after the family went to the Esopus settle-
ments, where the inhabitants all spoke Dutch....The Van Aukens were
prominent people in the valley of the Hudson and Delaware."
HUMAN MIGRATORY CIRCUMSTANCES AND PATTERNS:
My wife, Doris Louise Buckner Davidson is a direct descendant of
'The Immigrant' John Buckner and his wife, Deborah Ferrers, who
married on 10 July 1661, in Buckinghamshire, England. They arrived
in Virginia prior to 4 July 1665. The direct lineage is; John
Richard, John 3,
3, John 4, John 5, James A., Stephen M., Emmett, and
Eugene Buckner, her father. John Buckner¹ died 10 Feb 1695 in Essex
Co. Virginia. He descended from Rychard Buckner, 1493-1548, who
lived in Cumnor, Berkshire, England. Rychard descended from Robert
Bucknore (Buckner) of London who died in 1365. AND by the time of
the Revolution, they were in Western North Carolina.
Doris Louise Buckner Davidson is also a direct descendant of 'The
Immigrant Jacob Luursen Van Kuykendall and his wife, Styntje
Douwes who married on the 16th of August 1638 in Amsterdam, Holland
and came to the Hudson River Valley in 1640, on the ship 'Princess'
owned by the East Indian Shipping Co., of Holland. The direct lineage
is: Jacob Luursen; Luur Jacobsen; Cornelius; Abraham, a Captain in
the Revolutionary War; Jacob; Jacob Richmond; and Louisa Jane
Kuykendall who married Stephen Morgan Buckner.
Then Emmett, son
of Stephen Morgan and Louisa Jane; then Eugene, son of Emmett, then
Doris Louise, dau of Eugene Buckner and his wife, Virginia Ella
Weddle. And by the time of the Revolution, they too were in Western
North Carolina.
My mother, Viola Craig McNabb Davidson, 12 Feb 1900-12 Feb 1996 was
a direct descendant of James Micknab (McNabb) who sailed from Downes,
England, 8 December 1651, on the "John & Sarah"--Master John Greene--
and landed in Boston, Mass., before 24 February 1652 and went to work
for the Lynn Iron Works. The direct lineage is; James; William, Sr.;
William, Jr.; Babtiste David; Nathaniel T.; James P.; Nathaniel A.;
Walter Scott McNabb who married Bertie Sophia McNeill and were the
parents of Viola Craig McNabb. Yes, by the time of the Revolution,
the McNabbs were in Western North Carolina; HOWEVER, before they
drifted down the Alleghenies to the Blue Ridge, they were in the
Minisink country of Monroe County, Penn. where William McNabb, Sr.,