baptized, came to me, and one sees something bright in
children who have been baptized by the Brethren. I went
further, and the lines of a hymn occurred to me, "However
little one can do, one does that little gladly.' At c
Schoonover's I heard that he had indeed visited Benjamin
Smith, but there was much self-righteousnessthere.
I left
it to the Saviour that He might make it clear to me whether
I should conduct a meeting there.
-
Sept. 28. It seemed to me right that I should conduct a
meeting in Schoonover's house, and I had much grace and a
blessed feeling in my heart in connection with the discourse
on I John 3:23-24, which text harmonized with the daily
word. On my return journey I stopped at Hellab's, and came
to speak of David's penitential struggle. He himself has
been given to drink.) The sick youth, John Roberts cane
into my mind while on the way and when I came to Halley's
I learned that he had died. The last time I was there he
had said, "Home have mercy," and after that he had been
speechless for several days.
-
Sept. 29. I conducted a meeting in Burnside's house on
Psalm 38, with New Testament grace, and afterward went to
Hillman's, where I always feel comfortable, and afterward
to Nazareth, about 8 P. and in the warmth of my heart
and blood, I would gladly have gone on to Bethlehen if
Br. Franck had not stopped me. I attended the 11turgical
service and rested.
Sept. 30. Early at three o'clock I started, and on the way
I sang
"I can not possibly leave off,
I have not Thee embraced enough."
At which time the dream occurred to me which I had on
Ascension Day in 1747, viz.- that the Saviour and Br. Johan-
nes were together and I embraced my dear Lamb as I would a
man, and then He talked with Johannes about me. At last
early today I had a chance to see and kiss my dear heart
Johannes, and am rejoicing in grace and expect still more
blessing.
Oct. 1. After I had yesterday had the opportunity to see
my dear Johannes, and had been refreshed in the Congregation
atmosphere at Bethlehem, I started today in good spirits
from there, and with the blessing of the Congregation arri-
ved in the evening at Dansbury with Garritt Broadhead.
Hillmans and others were glad to see me so soon again.
word of the Saviour was Matt. 4 14. My heart was of-
ten with the dear missionaries at Gnadanhuetten.
-
The
Oct. 2. When I went early to the creek to fetch water, 1
received a blessed kiss on my heart, and I thanked the
Hounds of Jesus and wished to all pilgrims, and the whole
people of God, ( and especially my wife,) salvation.
1 re-
mained at home for the day, because a couple of friends had
said they wished to visit me. ily heart was often illumina-
ted, and my office ( that I am here, and not. In my conto (7),
but in the name of the Saviour, together with the Congrera-
12.
576i