He also served in 1780 for a tour under Col. Robinson. He also
completed a three month tour under general Marian, when General
Marian ordered him to guard a bridge to keep the British out.
Private Jo Hendrix took an oath that he served under Captain
David McNabb in an expedition under John Sevier against the
Cherokee Indians.
David McNabb, Sr. resided "ten miles above New Port Pigeon" ☑
in Washington Cty., North Carolina--later Washington Cty., Tenn.--
now Carter Cty., Tennessee.
ད་
Above from the application papers for membership in the
National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
Washington, D.C. of Marian Louise Little Lowry of Murray, Utah.
Computer Code Number 3-016-FI, approved June 25, 1986.
In 1777 when the North Carolina Legislature established
Washington County, N.C., it appointed a Court for the new County.
Colonel John Carter was chairman and among others, John McNabb,
was a member of the
son of Wm. McNabb, Senior & David's uncle,
Court.
On April 9, 1796 the General Assembly of the newly organized
state of Tennessee met in Knoxville and among other items, passed
into laws a bill providing for the creation of a new county
extracted from the northern & eastern area of Washington County
land. It was the third of several assaults on Washington County
land. In 1779 Sullivan Cty. and in 1783 Greene Cty. had been
formed, each from Washington County. In 1836 Johnson Cty. was
formed from Carter County. Then as late as 1875 Unicoi was formed
from Washington & Carter Counties.
Following the Act of 1796, the boundries of Carter Cty. were
to be established by Nathaniel Taylor and Joseph Brown, and they
were to be allowed $2.50 per day for surveying the line, with an
additional $1.00 per day for markers. Originally Carter County
contained some 700 square miles. Presently (1989) it has about
300 square miles.
men
The 1796 Tennessee Legislature appointed a committee of 5
to locate a county seat & have built a courthouse, prison,
& stocks. David McNabb, Sr. was a member of this committee along
with Landon Carter, Reuben Thornton, Andrew Greer, Sr., and
Zachariah Campbell. They decided to locate the county seat at
the confluence of the Watauga & Doe Rivers and this county seat
of Carter County was named Elizabethton. In honor of whom there
is some question but no ready answers.
David McNabb had married Elizabeth Taylor a relative of Brig.
General Nathaniel Taylor & daughter of Andrew Taylor, whose own
wife was Elizabeth (Lane) Taylor. Also Landon Carter's wife
was Elizabeth (McLin) Carter. Additionally, William McNabb, who
was either David's brother or uncle, the record is not clear which,
was married to an Elizabeth. Thus, it seems evident that the name
This
may
чере
to new port on the Pigeon River.
457