Paddock, Capt. B.B. (ed.) A 20th Century History & Biographical Record of
North and West Texas vol. 2. Chicago: Lewis Pub. Co.
1906
HISTORY OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS.
2
677
by a very large majority. As a Republican he
has done much to preserve and increase the in-
fluence of the party organization in this state.
He was a delegate to the national convention
in 1896, when McKinley was nominated, and
was also chosen a delegate to the party's na-
tional convention in Chicago in June, 1904. He
is senatorial chairman of the Republican state
committee for the twenty-ninth senatorial dis-
trict, and as such is a member of the state com-
mittee.
In addition to land and real estate Mr. Lutz is
in the insurance business. He has the abstract
books for Wilbarger county. The country in
this vicinity is thoroughly familiar to him, as he
has been over it in every direction. He is a
member of the executive committee of the
Texas Real Estate and Industrial Association,
with which he has been connected ever since its
organization several years ago. At his own
expense he prepared an attractive exhibit of the
resources and productions of Wilbarger coun-
ty for the St. Louis World's Fair, where he took
the silver medals on wheat and on cantaloupes.
At the Dallas Fair, 1905, he took first premium
on the best county exhibit, and three first pre-
miums on wheat, hard, soft, and winter wheat,
and second on oats.
Mr. Lutz is a Mason with the Knight Tem-
plar degrees and is connected with the local
commandery.
He was married at Vernon, December 25,
1897, to Miss Maud Thurman, and they have
three children: John, Robert and Mary.
JAMES M. MCNABB, a
a veteran of the Con-
federate army and one of the early settlers of
Cooke county, is a man of strength of character,
of firm purpose and of splendid qualities. He
is now devoting his attention to farming and
stock-raising. His birth occurred in east Ten-
nessee, February 26. 1841, and he was reared
to the honest toil of the farm, while the com-
mon schools afforded him his educational privi-
leges. His parents were James P. and Esther
(Flanagan) McNabb, both of whom were na-
tives of Tennessee; where they were married.
The paternal grandfather, Nathan McNabb, was
also a native of that state, and was of Scotch-
Irish descent. The family was established in
America at an early period in the development.
of the new world and representatives of the name
became pioneer settlers of Tennessee. 3 Nathan
YLOR McNabb became a prominent farmer and en-
joyed the trust and confidence of the people
throughout the community in which he lived. He
made his home in Tennessee up to the time of
his death. His children were: James P., father
of our subject; Nathaniel, who died in Texas;
Alford and Armstrong, who died in Tennessee;
Mrs. Lorina Stanley; and Fode.
2 James P. McNabb spent his youth in the state
of his nativity and was there married, after
which he began farming among the Cherokee
Indians, who still inhabited that section of the
state. In 1851 he sold his property there and
removed to Missouri, where he carried on gen-
eral agricultural pursuits until 1858. That year
witnessed the arrival of the family in Texas and
they first located in Fannin county, where they
raised two crops, coming thence to Cooke county
in 1860. They located the homestead near the
site of Marysville, although the village has been
platted since that time. The father secured one
hundred and sixty acres of land and later pur-
chased eighty acres. This he transformed into
a good farm whereon he spent his remaining
days. The family all came together to Texas
and the mother died in this county, after which
the father returned to Missouri, where his
death occurred in 1893. Both were members of 1893
the Methodist church and they were well known
in the community where their many excellent
traits of heart and mind gained them the friend-
ship of those with whom they were associated.
In their family were nine children: A. H., who
yet resides in Missouri; Mathew, who died in
that state at the age of eighteen years; James
M., of this review; Theodore W., who is living
in Nocona, Texas; Mary E., the wife of J.
Thomas Nathaniel who died in this state, leav-
ing a family; W. A., who died in Missouri;
Rebecca J., who married and died in Missouri;
and Lucretia, the wife of M. Hoff, of this
county. Harris ANNA born 1855.
James M. McNabb accompanied his parents
on their various removals until he became a res-
ident of Texas. Here he assumed the manage-
ment of his father's land and had erected a cabin
and secured some of the comforts of life, at the
same time placing a part of his land under cul-
tivation. He was married on the 30th of Decem-
ber, 1860, and was making arrangements for a
permanent settlement when in 1862 he enlisted
for service in the Confederate army as a mem-
ber of the Twenty-ninth Texas Cavalry under
command of Colonel DeMoss. The regiment was
assigned to the Trans-Mississippi department and
did service largely in Arkansas and the Indian
Territory, taking part in many skirmishes and
some fights. After reaching Fort Wichita, Mr.
McNabb was granted a thirty-days furlough and
this saved his entire family from being massacred
417
-Brother of 4 Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb, b. Apr 2, 1848--d. Mar 26, 1900.
James Pinckney McNabb, b. Feb 9, 1814--d. June 28, 1893. Father of " Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb, b. Feb. 5, 1783--d. after 1840 Bradley County, Tenn. Census. He
was the son of David McNabb, b. Feb 22, 1755--d. May 13, 1826 Carter County, Tenn. and
Nathaniel Taylor McNabb was the father of James Pinckney McNabb and the grandfather of
Nathaniel Armstrong McNabb, who was the father of Walter Scott McNabb, b Dec 1,1875-d.Sep 4,1936