'
following list of Marriage Licenses between the years 1748 and 1774 is
compiled from entries made by the Clerk on the fly leaves at the ends of the
Fee Books. They can scarcely be complete even for those years that are
noted. Probably the desire to be brief is the only explanation of the
remarkable circumstance that only the names of men are entered.
After the establishment of the Commonwealth, ministers of any denomi
nation might be authorized to celebrate matrimony by license from a court.
They could act, however, only after a bond had been given in the Clerk's
office as security that the marriage laws would not be violated by the issuance
of a license to the parties, and the issuance of that license. These bonds
were generally given by the prospective bridegroom and one or more of
his friends as surety. In most cases, the parent or guardian of the woman
gave a written consent, which was filed with the bond. The written con-
sent was witnessed by two or more persons. The bond itself frequently
bore the names of attesting witnesses. A copy of such a bond and consent
is printed immediately before the list of marriage bonds.
After the marriage ceremony, the minister made a return to the Clerk's
office of the fact, with its date.
The lists given herewith are complete within the period noted as far
as could be determined from the files in the Clerk's office.
It will be noticed that the first four hundred and forty-eight notes of
bonds are arranged in this form: First, the names of the man and woman
to be married, with the date of the bond; second, the identification of the
woman, and whether consent was given; third, the names of witnesses
and surety. The remainder of the notes follow more closely the form of
the bond-that is: first, the name of the bridegroom and his sureties, with
date of the bond; second, names of the man and woman to be married;
third, identification of the woman, or man, or both; fourth, whether con-
sent was given; fifth, names of witnesses to the bond, or consent.
MARRIAGES LICENSES IN AUGUSTA COUNTY.
1748 February , Archibald Elliott and Sarah Clark.
1749-June 17, John Buchanan and Margaret Patton; June 20, Archibald
Huston and Mary Stevenson; June 28, John Hinds and Jean Kerr; July
Robert Boyd and Eleanor Porterfield; August
-, John Dris-
kell and Jane Burnett; September _, Silas Hart and Jane Robertson;
September
Elijah McClenachan and Lettice Breckinridge; Decem-
Charles Whitaker; February -. John McGill, John Jones,
George Wilson; March _, James Edmondson, John Ramsey, James
Huston.
ber
8
1750 March 19, Robert Finla, William McNabb; April
James
Young; May
Joshua Mathews; June 2, Joseph White, Joseph Maze.
1751-April 15, Edward Beard, Henry Fuler; June 3, John Poage; June
15, Jacob Harman; April 4, Thomas Fulton; July 11, William Smith;
September 10, Thomas Milsap; Septembe: 4, Andrew Leeper.
1753 November 22, John Montgomerie.
1754 February 4, John Bowyer; March 23, Fred Smith, John Patton;
May 1, James Bratton; July 23, George Poage.
1756 November _, Alexander Hamilton; August
Miller.
275
William MENABB married (2nd W.) MARTHA
BENNETT, widow of RICHARD BENNETT, d. 1743,
Patrick
537