The Dansbury Diaries by some Moravian ſhivernany
July 18.
The text of yesterday impelled at to visit
several homes, and it comforted Mo. At Francis Jones'
it was notable for me to hear that his youngest daughter,
who is six weeks old, before Br. Pyrlacus baptized her,
had always been restless and cranky, afterwards would
always lie cheerfully and quietly by herself. For Joh
kchichaul's house I wished peace and blessings, and the
footsteps of the Brethren Hartin Hack and others, who
had formerly been there, refreshed me. At John Hillman'
I felt good also. Here a bridge has been built for Br.
Joseph's sake, when they heard that he was coming. At
Joseph Hayn's I couldn't do much. Then I went home and
read homilles, in preparation for alpack.
S
July 19. Early in the morning I wont from "Sideburn"
( Br. Burnside's little cabin in Dansbury,) to halpack.
(Halpack 16 an Indian word signifying " a good fat land")
On the way I reflected on the Trinity, that they might
Make no capable as a herald of the Gospel.
It was very
impressive for me that the Atonement had been for such
poor sinners. I visited the smith, illi holab, but 1
could talk to him only about the harvest. Afterwards
Ca. 1740a
Possibly
discourse on external matters, I could easily say something Caget.
about the rest and peace in Jesus. siout of the way today
was occupied with the Saviour only, and my marriage, and
the Brethren who had moistened this route with their sweat,
visited at McDowell's and Susanna Rey's, and after some relative
a
MCDOWELL
the
The 17505.
of
and sown it with prayer. Among then inzendorf, Benigan, Augusta Co.
and the poopie From Shekoneko. That gave E6 Coupeny • At Virginia in
last I came on the other side of the Delaware to Benjamin
Smith's, and because he was not at home, I resolved to
lodge in our school-house, arriving there at 5 P.A.
While at Smith's, his wife broke out in tears because of
the misery which she has folt since she met the happy
hearts, old and young, at the Synod in Bethlehem, this
having been her first visit there. I went to my lodging
a milo away, after I had announced the preaching bervice
131.
at Pawlin's kill, through a traveler at the Corry. import
-
-
It
Shaw's first wife had died hero. The 16tters and hint
versas I had read to Suzanina Ray. I swept out the church
and sleeping place, and was very happy in contemplation.
The oldest son, Abrahan, of Benjamin Smith's brother
John, from Virginia, came to me: . He is 23 years old, and
lives & Sharmadue, ( Shenandoah, ) in the Irish settlement.
His father is captain of the militia there. They have
never seen one of the Brethren, but have heard many ond
reports about them. He will return in a week or two.
is far beyond the Potomac. A clear indication of some connection
with the settlements in the Shenandoah VALLEY of Virginia,
July 20. A part of the morning I spent alone in the school-
house. Afterwards I remained with icholas Schoonoven who
has now been ill for 18 weeks, and who first received Br.
Mack as a guest five years ago, and afterwards Christian
Rauch, and who also had heard a few words from Br. Ludwig
(Zinzendorf) through an interpreter. ie told me that he
had many pains of the flesh, but that it was well with his
soul. He wished me to write a bill, but I thought of the
words of the Saviour in the text of the Congregation for
the 22nd of this month, "14.0 made me a Jadge or a divider
526H