434
DAWN OF TENNESSEE VALLEY
Henry Grymes, on s. side of the Holston, 640 a.;
June 21; July 24.
John Jones, in the Fork of Watauga and Holston,
an elm at the head of an island in the Holston, to the
mouth of the Watauga, 230 a.; June 29 (deed).
Isaac Ruddle, on Holston in the mountains, s. bank
97 a.; Aug. 10; Sept. 27.
John Jones, on the Holston, s. bank 210 a.; Nov. I
(deed).
Charles Robertson (brother of James or "Buffalo"
Charles), on east fork of Sinking Creek (environs of
Johnson City), adjoining Jonathan Tipton, Christo-
pher Cunningham and Robert Young, 213 a.; Nov. 1
(deed).
Rice Duncan, on Knob Creek near its head (later the
Deaderick home);' entry sold to John McMahon of
North Carolina.20
Dawn of TN
illiams
History,
The Watauga Preseason City, IN 1937
Judge Valley and TN
ब्र
George Lumpkin, entry on Roane Creek (Johnson
county), including both forks, adjoining (Richard)
Waldridge, 400 a., but deeded to Richard White.
Other patentees in 1775 were, without description
of the lands: George Russell (2), Andrew Greer (2),
Wm. Bean, Jr., Benjamin Pyburn, from Pittsylvania,
Baptist and John McNabb, from Augusta," Andrew
Little, from Fincastle, James Hollis, from Botetourt,
John Cassady, from the Valley of Virginia, Christo-
pher Shoate, from Pittsylvania, Thomas Farrer, from
Virginia, Jacob Chamberlain, from Virginia, Christo-
pher Cunningham, from Shenandoah," James Cooper,
See Williams, "Journal of David A. Deaderick," in E. T. Historical
Soc. Pubs., VIII, 134.
10 McMahon was the first register of deeds of Washington county.
When he located on this tract in 1774, his cabin home was the farthest
to the west of all settlements on the waters of the Watauga. Ib.
" Ancestor of Dr. Samuel B. Cunningham, first president of the
East Tennessee & Virginia Railroad Company-now a part of the
Southern Railway Company-between Bristol and Knoxville.
Augusta County, Virginia
AND TENNESSEE HISTORY
435
from Botetourt, Henry Massengill, from North Caro-
lina, James Abbot, from Botetourt, James Walding
(Walden or Walling), from Pittsylvania, John Bean,
Thomas Gresham, from Pittsylvania, Ambrose Hodge,
entry covering a part of site of Johnson City, Richard
Bennett, from Pittsylvania, Richard Fletcher, from
Pittsylvania, neighbor of Bean, George Reeves,"
brother-in-law of James Robertson, Samuel Denton,
from Shenandoah, James Smith, from North Carolina,
Jesse Benton," from North Carolina, Elijah Robert-
son, brother of James, George Gray, from Pittsylvania,
neighbor of Bean, Charles Thompson and John
Cassady.
Other settlers prior to 1776 located as shown below,
dates of settlement approximated: Michael Hyder
(1772), from Hampshire county, Virginia, on waters
of Buffalo Creek; ancestor of Landon C. Haynes, and
Governors Robert L. and Alfred A. Taylor.
John Williams (1773-4) on Gap Creek of Watauga,
from the Valley of Virginia, brother of Jarret Wil-
liams, the Indian trader. John was at Pt. Pleasant,
1774.
Gilbert Christian (1774) at the Long Island, site of
Kingsport.
Thomas Shoate, from Pittsylvania, (1773-4) near
Blountville.
Richard Shoate, from Pittsylvania, (1773-4) on
head of Hickory Creek, Sullivan county.
Edward Cox, from Baltimore county, Maryland,
(1774) one mile northeast of Bluff City, on Southern
Railway.
12 William Reeves was also a settler, seemingly a brother of George
Reeves.
13 For Benton: ante, p. 406.
514