ՐՈ
The bronze crozier-head added in the Dark
Ages to encase the wooden pastoral staff of
St. Fillan (died 703). This bronze head was
itself later in turn encased in a silver head
during the Middle Ages.
to
The Bell of St. Fillan, known as the Bearnan
or Little Capped One'. As late as 1488, it
was carried in the sacred pageant at King
James IV's Coronation. It was in the heredi-
tary custody of a Dewar whose toft is referred
to in 1640 as Dewar-Vernan's Croft', at
Suie in Glendochart. The relics of the
Founder Saint were the essential insignia of a
Celtic abbacy, and were sometimes given in
hereditary custody with a toft of land
younger branches of the abbatial family. Such
hereditary custodians were styled dewars',
which often became their surname. In Glen-
dochart there were five separate hereditary.
Dewars,
each with a separate relic of St. Fillan
(the pastoral staff, the bell, the arm-bone, the
meser' and the fearg '): they were presum-
ably cadets of the hereditary.
Abbots of Glendo-
chart, whose principal heirs were the Macnabs
of Macnab. Fearg means 'Wrath', and it is
uncertain what relic acquired this bye-name.
Its hereditary Dewars had their toft at Dewar-
na-fargs-croft, which is referred to as late as
1632, and was at Auchlyne in Glendochart,
where the ruins of their Caibel-na-Fairge or
Chapel of the Fearg can still be seen. It has
been suggested that the 'meser' was a meise
or portable altar, but it seems more likely
that it was the saint's missal, miraculously
written by night. In 1468 a MacGregor
certified to the Bailie of Glendochart that he
held the tack of the lands of Corehynan from
the Deore of the Meser'. The saint's arm-
bone was known as the Main, and his toft at
Killin is referred to in 1640 as 'Dewar-na-
Mans-croft and in 1670 as. Dewar-na-
Maynes-croft'. King Robert Bruce prayed
in the Priory of Strathfillan while a fugitive,
and attributed his escape from the Mac-
Dougalls to the saint's intervention. Accord-
ingly, the silver shrine of the saint's arm-bone
was brought to spend the night in the king's
tent on the eve of Bannockburn, and was
borne to the battlefield by the Abbot of
Inchaffray himself. This enshrined arm-hone
must have been an especially interesting relic,
as we are told that once upon a time, when
the saint was in his cell after sundown, a lay
brother was sent to call him to supper. The
messenger, curious to know what St. Fillan
was doing, looked through a chink in the wall,
and was astonished to see him writing by
means of a light that streamed from his left
arm. Next day a tame crane that was kept by
the holy fraternity picked out the eye of the
lay brother who was guilty of prying upon
the saint, and rendered him quite blind. but
at the request of the rest the brethren St.
Fillan restored his sight to the erring one'.
In 1549, the Privy Council protected "Malise
Doir of Quickrich' (Malise Dewar of Coig-
reach, the saint's pastoral staff) Archibald
Doir of Fargy' and 'Malcolm Doir of
Bernane (Bearnan was the saint's bell) from
having to hand over their sacred relics to the
Prior of Strathfillan. St. Fillan's bell and
pastoral staff are now in the National Museum
of Antiquities of Scotland, in Edinburgh. The
most important family of Dewars today is that
of which the millionaire peer Evelyn Dewar,
3rd Lord Forteviot, is the head. Coming from
the Perthshire highlands, they are most
probably sprung from one of the five hereditary
Dewars of St. Fillan, and so ultimately akin
to the Macnabs, the Sons of the Abbot of
Glendochart.
The elaborate silver crozier-head added to
encase St. Fillan's pastoral staff, probably
the fourteenth century. In 1336, the Menzies
chief, as then overlord of Glendochart, con-
firmed Donald McSobrell, dewar Cogerach,
in the lands of Ewich in Strathfillan. The
saint's staff was known the Coigreach or
Stranger', because it was so often carried
by its hereditary Dewar to far places: for if
any inhabitant of the parish of Glendochart
should have goods or cattle carried off from
him and be unable to follow them, whether
from doubt of the culprit, or feud of his
enemies, then he might send a messenger to
the Dewar of the Coygerach, with fourpence,
or a pair of shoes, and food for the first night,
and the said Dewar should follow the goods,
or cattle, wherever they might be found within
the bounds of the Kingdom of Scotland'. The
inquest that reported this to the Bailie of
Glendochart in 1428 declared that 'the office
of bearing the said relic was given to a certain
progenitor of Finlai Jore' (i.e. Finlay Dewar)
the present hereditary bearer, by the coarb
of St. Fillan (i.e. an ancient Celtic hereditary
Abbot of Glendochart); and that in return
for his services, the Dewar was due certain
specified quantities of meal from each
inhabitant of the parish. In 1487 the then
bearer of the Quegrich', Malise Doire (i.e.
Dewar) was confirmed in possession by King
James III. After a later 'Malise Doir of
Quickrich' in 1549 got the Privy Council to
prevent the Prior of Strathfillan from forcing
him to surrender his hereditary charge, the
certain
annoyance of the Church at being defeated
in its action against the Dewars may account
for the fact that in the following year the
Crown authorities stepped in and imposed
à charges upon the lands which Malise
Dewar of the Quigrich and his ancestors had
always held free As a result, in 1575, the
next Dewar of the Coigreach was obliged to
sell all his lands of Eyicht, Cryt-in-dewar in
Auchincarne and the half merkland called
Cragwokin, to Campbell of Glenorchy. In
the reign of Charles II, the then Dewar was
so poor that he had to sell the Coigreach itself
to MacDonell of Glengarry, who venerated
the relic as a Catholic. But the Dewars
I never rested until they regained possession
of the Quigrich, and brought it back, from
Lochaber to Breadalbane'. In 1782 its then
bearer, Malise Dewar, was a day labourer
living in Sraid Glas (Grey Street) at Killin.
As late as 1795, Presbyterian highlanders were
wont to come over a hundred miles to Killin
to procure water that had been passed through
the interior of the crozier'. The succession
of the family in the nineteenth century is set
out in the Rev. William Gillies' invaluable
In Famed Breadalbane (Perth 1938). In 1818
Archibald Dewar of the Coigreach emigrated
to Canada, taking the relic with him; and
Highlanders settled in Canada used to come
to him to get water in which it had been
dipped to cure their sick cattle. But in 1876,
Alexander Dewar of the Coigreach (with the
consent of his own son) was induced to transfer
the saint's pastoral staff to the Society of
Antiquities of Scotland, on trust to deposit
the same in the National Museum of Antiqui-
ties at Edinburgh, there to remain in all time
to come for the use, benefit, and enjoyment of
the Scottish Nation'. However, the present
representative of the Dewars or Keepers of
St. Fillan's crozier, Robert St. Fillan Dewar,
bears as heraldic insignia two such pastoral
staves in saltire behind his arms.
387
213
13