'
Captain David McNabb, Sr. in Revolutionary War
**Captain David McNabb had an eleven year Revolutionary War record
First against the Indians, then the British, which lasted from 1770
until 1781. He served the state of North Carolina with General
McDowell and General Marian, on tours. He also served under Fergerson.
Captain David McNabb performed a tour of duty in August 1781, as a
captain in what was then Washington County, North Carolina, along the
Doe River and across the Yellow Mountains into South Carolina along
the Santa River under Col. John Sevier. He also served in 1780 for
a tour under Col. Robinson. He also completed a three month tour
under General Marian, when General Marian ordered him to guard a
bridge to keep the British out. Private Jo Hendrix took an oath that
he served under Captain David McNabb in an expedition under John
Sevier against the Cherokee Indians.**
David McNabb, Sr. resided
"ten miles above New Port Pigeon" in
Washington Cty, No. Carolina--later Washington Cty, Tenn.--now
Carter Cty, Tennessee.
Above from the application papers for membership in the
National Sociaty of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
Washington, D.C. of Marian Louise Little Lowry of Murray, Utah.
Computer Code Number 3-016-FI, approved June 25, 1986.
George Taylors Know all men
Cower of attorney
20
by these presents that S. George Taylor of
David Mhabbe Pintimay district and State of South Carolina plantor have.
foto del 2 Traits made Constituted and appointed and by these presenty domate
If land in
Constitute and appoint David. Metabb &f Washington Counti
Gran County
in Verritory South of Ohio planter my bruce and Laugh La Hormon
for me and in my rance and to my use to sell too Traits of Land Lying in-
Jorun bounty and to grant dieds of Conveyance for the same le as to demand
and meuve of and from all and every person and Persong whatsoeverliving
on belonging in said Territory all and singular debt and dibly seem & siems
of money which now are due or shall be for the same to me and uponcinaçe
there for any part thereof for
and in my
name to make a good and Executo
Proper Accéeply and discharged for the same and an none payment thereseorang
port thereof.
actions or actions, sits at low
Equity for
me and in my name to Commence and Prosecute and riso le prysang Laman
Lums of money persuant to my order derechon and request a no de veratë, te
all and perform and Ecccule all and Whisperer shall be paya
fuciusly to all intin iz and purposes amit meghter aid dippe
Lenale prevent and all and watercer mejdaid alteram Shall brojulis
to'or Cruse to be done by barber & Base Presents I do hereby prom
ريات
One or
mone
me
me firm on this 6th day of may 1792-
cated and Delivered in præcivo
The Williams
Wilhame.
Power of Attorney from
or in.
Giorg: Taylor
Deo. Taylor to David Mc
6 May 1992 in Green Co.: NC/Tenn. David lived in "Washington Co.
in Territory South of this
459