OKLAHOMA SOUTH OF THE CANADIAN
GREER COUNTY.
541
Because of an error of one degree in a survey made by United
States government surveyors in 1852, which made the one
hundredth meridian pass north through the confluence of the
North Fork and Red rivers, Texas, the Lone Star state laid claim
to the territory between these two rivers and its ownership was
undisputed for forty years. From 1852 until 1870 the province
of Greer was little more than a happy hunting ground for the
Kiowas and Comanches, but in 1870 white men, in defiance of
Indian hostility, began to filter into the interior in pursuit of
the last remnants of the great herds of bison. About 1880 the
cattlemen came over the border and the Kiowa, Comanche and
buffalo moved westward. In August, 1886, the country was
organized as a Texas county and christened with the name of
Greer, in honor of the lieutenant-governor of Texas.
When congress passed the Organic Act in 1890 organizing the
Territory of Oklahoma, it authorized proceedings against Texas
for the possession of Greer County, and in March, 1896, the
United States supreme court decided the land belonged to the
Territory of Oklahoma, opening the land to homestead entry in
1897. A flood of immigrants came up from Texas and one of
the last great American frontiers was no more. Greer County
has undergone three major surgical operations, having the Jack-
son County appendage and the Beckham County wing severed by
the Constitutional Convention in 1907 and Harmon County
lopped off in 1910. Fertile lands and a comparatively level sur-
face make the county ideal for agricultural purposes, three lines
of railroad, the Wichita Falls & Northwestern, the Kansas City,
Mexico & Orient and the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific furnish
excellent transportation facilities, and twelve hundred miles of
highways reach all the remoter sections of the county and bring
them within easy reach of the railways and the markets. More
than six hundred miles of telephone lines make communication
between all parts of the county relatively easy. As Oklahoma
counties go, Greer is not a large county, its area in acres being
four hundred and twelve thousand, one hundred and sixty, and
its population at the time of the federal census in 1920, fifteen
thousand, six hundred and sixty. Outside of the county seat,
Mangum, there is practically no manufacturing of any descrip-tion.
WARREN GILBERT Natl was born in Greer Conty in 22 Jan.
1898. Parents; Walter Scott & Bistic McNabb who lest inter
Cont
t
Jile.
on
dand in
Housfond cty, Texas in 18.99 to move
557
there in late 1900 after Viola Cray M: Habb was born Feb. 12, 1900, in Stephens ity, Texor
557