HISTORY OF NORTH AND WEST TEXAS.
Margaret E. (Hood) Chapman, both of whom
were natives of Tennessee. The father was a
son of James T. Chapman, who resided at Mem-
phis, Tennessee, and on one occasion all of the
members of the family who were at home were
stricken and died of yellow fever, save the
father, who afterward removed to Knox county,
where his death occurred. His children were:
Addeberry, Aciel, William, Charles and Mrs.
Malinda Landis.
in
Aciel Chapman was reared to manhood
Knox county, where he married, and later he
removed to Roan county, while subsequently he
became a resident of Missouri, where he was en-
gaged in farming. He afterward took up his
abode in Tennessee and was a river man, act-
ing as captain of some boats on the Ohio, Ten-
nessee and other rivers for many years. In Mis-
souri he devoted four years to farming and in
1859 he removed to Texas, settling in Jack coun-
ty, where he purchased land and began its im-
provement. While on a deer hunt he was killed
by a band of Indians, in July, 1860, being then
forty years of age. His early manhood had
been spent in steamboating, but later he de-
termined to give his attention to farming. This
plan, however, was frustrated by his early death.
His wife raised one crop in Parker county and
in 1862 removed with her family to Cooke county,
where she afterward became the wife of G. W.
Kitchen. To avoid the war troubles and the In-
dian depredations they settled south of San An-
tonio, where they remained until called to their
final rest, Mrs. Kitchen passing away in August,
1905. She was a consistent member of the Bap-
tist church. By her first marriage she had nine
children: James T., who is living in Dallas,
Texas; Mrs. Eliza McNabb; Mrs. Mandaily
Sweeton; Frank T., a farmer of western Texas;
Mark, who was killed by Indians in Cooke county
in 1867; Mrs. Candace Langley; Josephus, a far-
mer; John, a farmer and stock. man, who died
leaving a wife and two children; and Charles,
a farmer and butcher.
Mr. and Mrs. McNabb have become the pa-
rents of seven children: Joseph P., a resident
farmer of Oklahoma; A. L., who is following
agricultural pursuits in the Indian Territory;
Mary E., the wife of S. Carpenter; Ed. L., a
farmer of the Territory; Lilly A., who became
Mrs. Tucker and after his death married Mr.
Patterson, their home being now in the Choctaw
Nation: Rosa A., the wife of J. H. Goodpas-
ture, of Whitesboro, Texas; and Ina M., the
wife of T. S. Goodpasture, a farmer of the In-
dian Territory. The family circle yet remains
679
unbroken by the hand of death and all of the
children are well settled in life.
.
Mr. McNabb, as the architect of his own
fortunes, has builded wisely and well. He has
had only the assistance of his wife, who has been
to him a faithful companion and helpmate on
life's journey. Together they have lived and la-
bored and have created a good estate, all be-
ing made in Montague county. Many hardships,
trials and difficulties fell to their lot in their
early married life but as the years have gone
by their labor and perseverance have overcome
these and prosperity has now crowned their ef-
forts.
419