';
1
Ah älgunch continend and hold for Augeffe counts the a
day of fobeuary 1749
William Beauty Eg fin oper Countach with gutter für Confefor hand underto
to William Mithrabs which on his Motion is amittis lacund
Yooh
John Stadivon, el he
Chis Indenture
made the twenty
Ciglih happo (Hobimary Juttis Year four Lord &notions and seven hundred and ſoiſ, we
Between William Biante En of the County of Essex, of the ons part and Witham
"M" Hall of thefounty of Augustes of the other part Wittressette that for.
and in Consideration of the sum of thins pounds Cuirt Money of Virginia
toller said, William Beverley in litud paud by the said William McNabb al.
mot din or before the fealing and delivers of tests profector the rooi h
ich whersof he
cloth hers by acknowledge and the roof doth reloops arguit and discharge the
said William Mi halb hls, Executors and administrators by thots projects He
ther and William Beverley Hath granted borga'sued Sild aliones rotossed and
confirmed and by the ots properts Dottgrand bargain Sell Alion Roloofs (
con form wits the fand William Mihrabb pin his listual, possession now being
by Vicbus of a bargane and ſale, to burnthor of Heads for onnohole Yard
Pridenture heardy date this day craph before the day.
and by four of this statuts for transferring love the Date of those prosents
cack
and his hevis for
Enspines offariste of fand con
"mining there hundred airey better sens
Auguſta, Dr bound ad as folebatte Begizoring the theme south seventy, light.
Morrorless lying and benique Beverley Mannors in the said County of
heory Corner to famuse Downey!
u
altos while laks and one-
Degrows Weft their ty poles with his Lins to his former a black shin 280.
Thompsons Lin's thened with faid Lines. Dus north onslundred and thirty, wit
toarch to pahand history corner to John Campbell-un faid Thompsons ine
thous with haid to a mobiles Lens dus aft colundred and forte Eight-
poles croſsing a small rure totus white oak saplins Cornerto James.
Callisons Land thours forthe two hundred and thirk, polis with said Callion.
and Alexander Hi featers Lint lawhite och corner to Mi fenters Land.
tumes Weft ons hundredſ
If fifty polos touwhile oak and Black och Come
to faid Doroneys Loved thous with leidene pind Corners North twelve jobs
totes hecorys Weft seventy pots to achite oad North Minit four jobs
tothe beginning and all houfer building. Orchiddrways Waters Water
courser profile Commodities Hereditaments and tenances whatfer
tottes said promisors hordby go duted or any feel thesesofbelonging or.
fire is and
Never mis
truſt
ان
590)
Title Interest Use Frucht (proportin Blaun and demand whatfower of be.
this and William Beverley of in and to this said promises And all Deeds
Cindernes and writings toraching or any will
fland and
all and fugular other the promises hereby granted and Rowap.
farts and farmaste this of with thesis and every of their appuite --
+ Millim te habs his hursand a fugis forever
Johave and toholds the said three hundred and tistams.
Sed every
527 C