212
Macnab
Macnab means 'Son of the Abbot', and the Macnab chiefs were the
descendants and heirs of the Celtic hereditary Abbots of Glendochart,
themselves the coarbs or heirs of St. Fillan mac Feradach, who was a prince
of the Dalriadic royal house of Lorn and died in 703. He founded his
principal abbey in Glendochart, the upper part of the glen becoming known
as Strathfillan. It was the Celtic custom for abbots to be chosen from the
Founder's Kin, and the old Gaelic MS. genealogies trace the mediaeval
Macnab chiefs through some twenty generations from Saint Fillan's
brother, Ferchar mac Feradach.
In the thirteenth century, the Abbot of Glenochart still ranked with the
Earls of Atholl and Menteith, and after the discontinuance of the Celtic
abbacies the Macnab chiefs retained the barony of Bovain in Glendochart.
But in 1828 an old prophecy was fulfilled, that when a great storm blew
a branch of a pine tree against the trunk of another, and grafted itself on
to the trunk, the Macnabs would lose their lands': and the old clan lands
were sold up for debt. However, the offending pine branch has died since
the present snowy-bearded chief bought back the last 7,000 acres of the
clan country, and returned to live in the home of his forefathers as The
Macnab.
The Macnab, 22nd Chief, C.I.E., with his
wife Alice, daughter of Dame Flora MacLeod
of MacLeod. The Macnab was Financial
Commissioner of the Punjab in the Indian
Civil Service, and his wife was awarded the
Kaisar-i-Hind silver and gold medals. His
elder brother, the 21st Chief, resigned the
Chiefship to him when he recovered the old
Macnab lands from the Campbells. His heir
is his nephew, James Macnab of Macnab, yr.
(son of the 21st Chief), who is married to Lord
Kilmany's daughter and lives nearby, also
in, the ancient Macnab country.
386
FAR
OMNIS
FROM
ABESTO
LET FEAR BE
TIMOR
Sir Allan MacNab, 1st Baronet, Prime
Minister of Canada, who became heir male of
the Macnabs on the death of the 17th Chief in
1860, but left an only daughter Sophia
MacNab, Countess of Albemarle. On William
Lyon Mackenzie's rebellion against what he
called the Family Compact', in Canada in
1837, MacNab turned out with his militia
battalion-known by the rebels as "the Men
of Gore" defeated the rebels at Mont-
gomery's tavern, cleared the neighbouring
districts, and cut adrift the schooner Caroline,
to a body of American "s
", who had taken possession of
a little above Niagara, and sent her in
flames over the falls.' (Mackenzie, who also
called his innocent sovereign Victoria
Guelph, the bloody queen of England', later
died of softening of the brain.) The Iron Duke
of Wellington declared that it was his con-
viction that owing to the loyalty, zeal and
active intelligence of Sir Allan MacNab the
Canadas had been preserved to the British
Crown'.