quarter of their total. More Cherokees died after
arrival in the Indian Territory because of epidemics
and continuing shortages of food. During the 1830s,
other Southeast tribes endured similar experiences,
including the Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks, and
Seminoles (see entries for those tribes). This was a
shameful time in American history.
The Indian Territory
Nor was the injustice enacted upon the Cherokees
and other tribes of the Indian Territory over. The In-
dian Territory was supposed to be a permanent home-
land for various tribes. Originally, the promised
region stretched from the state boundaries of
Arkansas, Missouri, and Iowa to the 100th meridian,
about 300 miles at the widest point. Nonetheless, with
increasing white settlement west of the Mississippi in
the mid-1800s, the Indian Territory was reduced again
and again.
In 1854, by an act of Congress, the northern part of
the Indian Territory became the territories of Kansas
and Nebraska, which later became states. Then, start-
ing in 1866 after the Civil War, tribes living in those
regions were resettled on lands to the south,
supposedly reserved for the Southeast tribes, now
known as the Five Civilized Tribes.
During the 1880s, the Boomers arrived-white
home-seekers squatting on Indian reservations.
Various white interests-railroad and bank ex-
ecutives, plus other developers lobbied Congress for
the opening of more Indian lands to white settlement.
Assimilation and Allotment
In 1887, Congress passed the General Allotment Act
(or the Dawes Severalty Act). Under this law, certain
Indian reservations held by tribes were to be divided
and allotted to heads of Indian families. Some
politicians believed that the law would help Indians by
motivating individuals to develop the land. They also
believed it would bring about the assimilation of In-
dians into the mainstream American culture. But
others were just interested in obtaining Indian lands,
since it was much easier to take advantage of in-
dividuals than of whole tribes. Many of the same
people advocated stamping out Indian culture and
religion and sending Indian children to white-run
boarding schools. This period in United States Indian
policy is called the Assimilation and Allotment period.
Cherokee Eagle Dancers
By 1889, two million acres had been bought from the
Indians, usually at ridiculously low prices, and
thrown open to white settlement. The Oklahoma
Land Run took place that year, with settlers lining up
at a starting point to race for choice pieces. Those who
cheated and entered the lands open for settlement
were called "sooners." In 1890, Oklahoma Territory
was formed from these lands.
were taken. Oklahoma, all of which had once been In-
dian land, became a state in 1907.
During this period, in 1924, the federal government
passed the Citizenship Act, conferring citizenship on
Native Americans. Two states-Arizona and New
Mexico delayed giving Indians voting rights until
much later.
Restoration and Reorganization
Cherokee and Choctaw leaders refused allotment
and took their case to federal courts, as John Ross had
done years before. In reaction, Congress passed the 440
Curtis Act of 1898, which dissolved their tribal govern-
ments and extended land allotment policy to them
against their wishes. Piece by piece, the Indian lands
In 1934, with the Indian Reorganization Act (or the
Wheeler-Howard Act), the policies of Assimilation
and Allotment ended. This was the start of the Tribal