Restoration and Reorganization period, sponsored by
President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, John Collier. The
Cherokees and other native peoples all over North
America began to rediscover their cultural heritage,
which the assimilationists had tried to take away, and
to reorganize their tribal leadership into vital and
effective governing bodies.
Yet, unfortunately, those tribes who underwent
allotment never regained the lands given to whites.
Remaining Indian lands in Oklahoma are not called
reservations, as most tribally held pieces are in other
states. In Oklahoma, they are called Indian trust areas.
Some are tribally owned and some are allotted to
families or individuals. Yet, by an act of Congress in
1936, the lands are protected as reservations from
outside speculators.
Termination and Urbanization
The federal government went through other phases -
in its policy toward Indians. In the 1950s, some
politicians sought to end the special protective
relationship between the government and Indian
tribes (see "Menominee"). Indians in Oklahoma and
elsewhere were encouraged to move to cities in order
to join the economic mainstream.
Self-Determination t
Termination as a policy failed. The Cherokees and
other tribes knew that their best hope for a good life in
modern times was tribal unity and cultural renewal as
called for in the earlier policy of Restoration and
Reorganization. Since the 1960s, the federal Indian
policy has been one of tribal self-determination, which
means Indian self-government and strong tribal
identity.
Cherokee tribal headquarters in the West is located
in Tahlequah, Oklahoma. Some of the western
Cherokees have made money from oil and other
minerals found on their lands. There is a pageant for
tourists every summer with dancers, musicians, and
actors. The pageant is called The Trail of Tears. A fa-
mous American humorist by the name of Will Rogers
was a Western Cherokee. He gained a wide audience
in the 1920s and 1930s through radio, movies, books,
and newspapers. He was called the "cowboy
philosopher."
There are still Cherokees in the East too, in North
Carolina. Descendants of those who hid out in the
mountains during the relocation period still live there.
They presently hold rights to the picturesque
Cherokee Reservation in the Great Smoky Mountains
in the western part of the state. There, the Cherokees
have a factory where they make crafts sold in stores all
over North America, as well as a lumber business, and
motels and shops for tourists. The Cherokees lease
some of these businesses to whites. At the reservation_
in North Carolina, visitors can watch the annual
pageant of the eastern Cherokees called Unto These
Hills. Participants perform many dances, including
the stunning Eagle Dance, passed down through the
centuries among many generations of Cherokees. The
dancers, wearing colorful costumes, move in swoop-
ing circular patterns, like birds in flight. The feathered
eagle wands they wave are symbols of peace.
Yuchi
The Yuchis (pronounced YOO-chee) spoke a unique
dialect, usually referred to simply as Yuchi. When
scholars cannot find sounds or words in a native
language resembling elements in other languages,
they have a difficult time tracing the ancestry and
:
peoples and settled in the Southeast. They lived near
the Catawba Indians, another eastern Siouan people
(see "Catawba").
The earliest known location of the Yuchis was in
what is now eastern Tennessee. But, after that early
period, the Yuchis came to live in territory now part of
many different states, including Georgia, Florida, and
South Carolina. Scholars classify the Yuchis within the
Southeast Culture Area (see "Southeast Indians").
That is to say, they were Woodland Indians who built
villages and planted crops along river valleys. They
lived by farming, hunting, fishing, and collecting wild
plant foods.
The known history of the Yuchis begins with
Hernando de Soto's expedition of 1539-43 that.ex-
plored much of the Southeast and encountered many
Indian peoples. Other Spaniards mention various
bands of Yuchis under different names in their histori-
cal accounts. A Spaniard by the name of Boyano under
the explorer Juan Pardo claimed to have battled and
killed many Yuchis on two different occasions in the
mountains of either North Carolina or Tennessee.
Because the explorers' maps were inexact, it is difficult
to pinpoint the locations.
In the 1630s, various Yuchi bands swept south out of
the Appalachian highlands to raid Spanish set-
tlements and missions in Florida. Some of these
Yuchis settled in what was then called West Florida, in
Apalachee country
ancient history of a tribe. Until recently, this was the
case with the Yuchis. Now it is thought that the Yuchi
dialect has some elements in common with dialects of
the Siouan language family. Therefore, the Yuchis
probably long ago split off from other Siouan-speaking
Yuchi Feather Dance wand
In the 1670s, various Englishmen, exploring
southwestward out of Virginia and the Carolinas,
made contact with Yuchis still in Tennessee and North
Carolina. In the following years, many Yuchi bands,
probably because of pressure from hostile Shawnees,
migrated from the high country, following the
Savannah River toward the coastal country in Georgia.
The Yuchis who had previously gone to Florida also
migrated to Georgia. Both groups of Yuchis became
allies of the English colonists and helped them in slave
raids on mission Indians of Spanish Florida, including
the Apalachees, Calusas, and Timucuas (see those
tribes).
By the mid-1700s, the Spanish military and mission
systems in Florida were weakened. From that period
into the 1800s, many Yuchis migrated southward and
settled on lands formerly held by other tribes.
The Yuchis eventually lost their tribal identity.
Those who stayed in Tennessee and North Carolina
merged with the Cherokees; those who settled in
Georgia joined the Creeks; and those who migrated to
Florida united with the Seminoles.'
441