&
в
2
ง
ing
JNY Y
di
'ams
።
AUGUSTA.
539
all and ſingular, then the promiſes hereby granted and wlased.
Parhand Parishe theors of with their and every of their appurtenances weite
this said William Mr Centoch, hishers and assigns forever, tollis only
proper less and behoofoflume the said Williand Mitoch and of hi
hurs and assigns forever, and thomaid Williance Beverley for himself
bis heirs Exultors and Aom: dotte Covenant gromifsandgrant
found with the said William Milestock his heirs and assigns by thos
• profunts that listhes said William Beverley nouch the times
oheme of healing I
delivering of the fo persports is fuzed opened ford perfoch and undefoe, in
Etats of Inheritance in for pumple, & hand uitter spromisses hereby grade
purple,
and Released and that leslente y Dod power p law full and abfoluto authoriti
had
togrant, and conver
the same Inge William McClustock in Manus
& form a forsvaid And that the sad promisses noward and to forever
Zorsafter. Shale romain and befres and clear if and from all former-
and other gifts grants bargains Sales Dower right, and title of
Dower Judgments Expections Titles Troubles charges and Jaume-
branes whatsoever made cons committed on sulfiored by you won
Beverley or any other person or persons what foever [ the quetreats
herefter
horse fler to grois clue, and payable tour Loverſign Lord #toking his
Pension forenſin respoche
only
for piered] And Lastly that stand William Beverley and his hevis
all and singular the promise hereby granted and Roloased with it ove
Appurtenances, white to said Willie Briffentail and his huis from
all and every other Herson and persons whatsoever it all and will warrant
and forever defond by the ſe ſprouts weshers of theward with in
Beberley liste bursuits felt his hand Joel, yeah and your first above writin
Sealed & Delivered
willo prosomesof
The Hondor fou
The Rutledge
Bentley
Rob Rauchen Abahorch continued and held for Augusta County
the 28th day of Jobinary 1749.
COUNTY, Williain Beverly Eat in open fouth acknowledged the his Rolonhofen
Land indouſed to William Mi Clitoch which on his Motion is admitted to
VIRGINIA woord
Deep Book
2
p.539
542
27 Feb.1749
ORIGINAL
Chis
Josh
John Madison (2 (4)
Indenture
madi.
the Resists, leventh day of Hobruary Inths Year ofour Lord Onothers and devenbund i
and forty Nine Beiben. William Beverley Exf: of the Counts of Chaw of the
ons Back Andy William Mr Nabb of the County of Augustes of the other part
Conardore doing
Wine self that the said. William Beverly for and in
WM. BEVERLEY by the ward to stem Withalb at or before the Seling and delivery of theft fronto
the queue of five Shillings Current Money of Virginia, to hime in handpaid.
GRANT
FROM:..
WILLIAM MENABB
527 A