ITI
DAVID MCNABB, Senior
II
Circa 1768-69 William McNabb, Senior, moved his family to
the Buffalo Creek area of the Indian Lands of what became in
1777, by the Act of North Carolina, Washington County, North
Carolina; then in 1796 the area became Carter County, Tennessee
during the first meeting of the general assembly, after Tennessee
became a state in 1796.
Baptist McNabb, one of William's sons, in 1770 built the first
grist mill in Tennessee, on Buffalo Creek which is a stream running:
South to North in the NW corner of present day Unicoi County &
the SW corner of Carter County where it joins the Watauga river
west of Elizabethton, the county seat of Carter County.
McNabb. His
David McNabb, Senior, b. 22 Feb. 1755 Augusta County, Virginia
d. 13 May 1826 in Carter County, Tennessee, was the oldest of the
9 children of Baptist McNabb and Kathren
siblings were Isabella, who married Andrew Taylor II, in 1786 in
Washington County, North Carolina (after 1796 in Tennessee);=
John, James Jonathan; William who married Elizabeth ? in
Washington County, N.C., (later Tenn.) recorded in Carter County,
Tenn. in Marriage Record Book 18-18 p. 166 and whose Will is
recorded in Carter County, Tenn. dated 16 May 1809%; Mary%;B Jane;
Margaret and Kathren or Katrin.
David, in 1778, returned to Augusta County, Virginia to Marry
Elizabeth Taylor, daughter of Andrew Taylor, Senior, & Elizabeth
(Wilson) Taylor. (Andrew Taylor, probably Scotch-Irish, born
Atrim, Ireland in 1733 died Washington County, N.C. in 1787)
The young couple made their home in Washington County, N.C.
These were turbulent times in Western North Carolina and
Eastern Tennessee. An area West of the Blue Ridge generally
called Watauga Country. On October 7, 1780 both David McNabb &
his father, Baptist, joined several hundred other over-mountain men &
defeated the British Commander, Major Ferguson & his troops at the
Battle of King's Mountain, North Carolina. The defeat of the
British by over-mountain men, was a turning point in the Revolutionary
war in the South and the Watauga region was not again threatened
by invasion of the British; only the Indians were left with which
to be concerned.
"Captain David McNabb had an eleven year Revolutionary War
Record: First against the Indians, then the British, which lasted
from 1770 until 1781. He served the state of North Carolina with
General McDowell and General Marian, on tours. He also served.
under Fergerson. Captain David McNabb performed a tour of duty.
in August 1781, as a captain in what was then Washington County,
North Carolina, along the Doe River and across the Yellow Mountains
into South Carolina along the Santa River under Col. John Sevier.
456