because these New England men make so much of intellec-
tual understanding. I ended the day with the discourse
of Brother L. ( Zinzendorf) on the bride and the wedding
guests, and I had hearty fellowship with the Bridegroom
concerning myself and the people here.
December 19. After I had spent the forenoon, partly, in
reading the London discourses, and partly commanding with
the Saviour concerning my heerers, these came to the meet-
ing, which was very much blessed.
"
We Bang The Christian,
he who feels that Christ has dlod, etc." and after that
I spoke on John 1: 12,16,17. Our feelings were in ac-
cordance with the message. Afterward I made up my mind
to go with Francis Jones to Samuel Dubul, where the sister-
in-law of Francis lies sick unto death" Formerly I hate
often wondered how I might find entrance to this house.
Brother L. and his company had lodged there for the ht
while the father Nicolas Dupul dwelt there. How I found
the opportunity for this sick visit in the company of Fran-
cls, and the Saviour granted me abundant grace to testily
concerning His wounds. The faces of some of those present
were changed, and Saumel gave heed to that which was said.
A negro was present, who was 111. To him I spoke of the
blessing of the Cross. The sister-in-law of Francis Jones
was very anxious to hour. Several strangers were present.
I found there also a certain Mcilab, - one of those who at
tend the services of our brethren. He happened to be
drunk, for Samuel is a tavern-keeper. I had no other don
concerning this house than that it is full of evil spirits.
During this hour, however, they were bound. Then we visit-
ed the widow of Moses Dupui, and I told the orphans how the
Saviour Himself would be their father. The widow said thi: L
I had been the last with whom her husband had spoken, and
that from that hour he had wished to hear nothing further
of this world, but had continued lying quietly for the re-
maining seven days. When some one begged him to tako a
will, he answered that he would leave to the world that
which belonged to it, since he had now something better.
[The little Dominie Fryemith has been there, but had not
said anything good to them. For that reason they gave head
to what I said.) In the evening I stopped at John Baker's,
whose son, John Wheeler, is recovering, and is minded to
belong to the Saviour. At Brodhead's we had edifying dis-
course concerning salvation through the blood of Jesus
alone, and his wife again expressed herself clearly and
nicely, after maintaining a long silence. In the evening
་
I wrote to Bethlehem about the baptism of two children.
December 20. I was up early, in order that I might go to
Paulins Creek. After I had stopped in at Halley's, Brod-
head's and Baker's, I visited Aaron Dupui, who is ill.
received me in a friendly manner, and I sought to direct
him to the meaning of the wounds of Jesus, unknown to him.
As I was leaving, it occurred to me to pray that he night
know himself to be a poor sitner. At Just 1 came to the
Gap of the Blue Mountains, on the bank of the Delaware,
and had, at first, the footsteps of my dorost Brethren
Johannes, Friedrich, and Nathaniel in affectionate renom-
30.
526J