RE: ELIZABETH TAYLOR MCNABB
TO WHOM IT MAY BE OF INTEREST OR CONCERN:
A written account substantiating the attached article
concerning Elizabeth Taylor McNabb and the naming of Elizabethton,
Tenn., was in existence as late as 1936 and still may be some-
place. My grandfather, Walter Scott McNabb, who had lived in
Hansford Co., Texas since around 1898; had been elected County
Clerk for 8 years in 1906, as he was a graduate of Abilene
Christian College; was President and principal owner of the first
bank in Hansford County; and who owned several mineral rights to
oil and gas lands in central Texas, was killed in an automobile
accident, in 1936.
During the chaos that ensued from something so unexpected, the
family members failed to ensure the security of my grandfather's
huge office safe. Sometime after the funeral, when the family
members went to the office to open the safe, they found it unlocked
and completely empty. The County Sheriff, Hix Wilbanks, and his
deputies never found a clue as to who might have robbed the safe.
There were several good suspects as a number of people owed my
grandfather considerable amounts of money and the signed notes
attesting to their debts, were in the safe.
My grandfather had always had a knowledgeable interest in the
McNabb Family History. He had employed several genealogists over
the years and had a number of notebooks filled with family infor-
mation, along with carefully filed photographs. Thus, from a close
association with my grandfather and the freedom to read through all
of the notebooks, plus the encouragement of both my grandfather
and my grandmother, I became something of an 'authority' on the
McNabbs and the McNeills. The latter being my grandmother's family
who came from the Isle of Tiree, Scotland to New Brunswick, Canada,
in 1825. The account of the naming of Elizabethton, Tenn. was a
part of the written information in one of the notebooks. HOWEVER,
it is doubtful that I would have remembered the account so clearly
except for an incident at the public school I attended when I was
14 years old. Like all students of the time, I was assigned to
give a talk to the class about something of interest. In an attempt
to impress a certain young lady named Elizabeth, who was in my
class, I read up on the account in my grandfather's notebook,
concerning the naming of Elizabethton, Tenn. Additionally, I could
fairly well describe Elizabethton from what I had been told by my
grandfather, my grandmother and my mother, Viola Craig McNabb
Davidson, who as a teenage girl had attended Ward-Belmont College,
a young ladies finishing school in Nashville, Tenn. On occasion on
trips to Nashville, my grandparents and my mother-to-be, would
continue on to Elizabethton, Athens and Cleveland, Tenn. before
returning to Texas.
In 1988, I read Frank Merritt's Master's Thesis, THE EARLY
HISTORY OF CARTER COUNTY, which, as a university professor who had
been on many examining committees for both masters level and
doctoral level research papers, I thought was very well done. Anyone
398
%
469 B