Mr. Walter C. Davidson,
Miami, Florida.
December 13, 1954 - 2
for Auchlyne and Wester Durnish in Glendo chart in 1486. His father
died at Auchlyne in 1488. About that time the MacNabs seem to set
about the recovery of their possessions lost in the wars of the
Bruce. They had some thoubbel with the Dewars and began their long
struggle with the Neishes. In 1502 Finley received from James IV.
a charter of the lands of Euer abd Keiragan. He was succeeded by his
son, Finlay. Finlay (V.) appears as a witness to a charter to
Duncan Campbell of Hlenorchy in 1611. In his time the battle of
Glenboultachan is supposed to have been fought. He died at 'Illa
Rayne and was buried at Kılfın 13th April, 1525.' and his eldest
son, Finlay (VI.) succeeded him. He mortgaged the greater part of his
lands to Colin Campbell of Glenorchy, under a charter dated 24th
November 1552 and confirmed by a charter from Mary, dated 27th June
1553. Finlay (VII.) son of the preceding chief, entered into a
bond of friendship with his kinsman, Lauchlan Mckinnon of Strathardıl
in 1606. This bond is witnessed by' James Macnabb, Robeet Macnabb,
Duncan Dow Macnabb, Archibald Macnabb, Gibble Macnabb, John MacDhel,
and Ewan Mackinnon, with others.' Finlay married Catherine Camp-
bell, daughter of the Laird of Glenorchy, by whom he had twelve aons,
"In 1610 a party of 200 chosen men of the Campbells, MacNabs,
MacDonnells and Camerons defeated a body of Macgregors at Bintach. In
1610 the sons of Macnab stormed the stronghold of the Neishes, and
put all save two to the sword.
"Alan Min, or Smooth John (VIII.), succeeded his father. John
led his clan under the Montrose in 1645, and after the battle of Kil-
syth was commissioned to defend the castle of Kincardine.
"Alexander (IX.), a mere boy, became chief on his father's death.
During his minority the Campbells overran the Macnab possessions and
destroyed their castle of Kilean Han. His mother was Mary, daughter of
Campbell of Glenlyon. Alexander married a sister of Sir Alexander
Menzies of Weem, by whom he had Robert, tenth chief, who married
Anne Campbell, sister to the first Earl of Breadalbane. Robert raised
his clan in 1680, and added Glenorchy in his campaign in Caithness..
His son, John Machab, chief, married Jean, sister to Francis Buchanan
of Arnprior, by whom he had two sons, Francis and Robert, and two
daughters, Elizabeth and Marjory, who survived him. The family of
tne chief fought for the House of Hanover in the '45%; but the clan was
out for the Stewarts under Acharn, Inchewen, and Dundurn. John
Macnab died in 1778, and Francis became the twelfth chief.
somewhat eccentric. On his death at Callander, 25th May 1816, his
nephew, Archibald, son of Dr. Robert Macnab, became thirteenth chief.
Owing to financial difficulties, Archibald was compelled to sell his
estates. In the beginning of the last century many of the clan had
crossed the Atlantic, and in 1831 the chief, with some hundreds of
the clan folk, emigrated to Canada. There he had other difficulties,
and in 1853 returned to Europe. After a visit to Scotland he settled
in France, where he died on 12th August, 1860, aged eighty-three. He
was survived by a widow and but one daughter, out of a family of eight.
His daughter, Sophia Frances, died at Florence in 1894."
The illustration of the MacNab Tartan shows red with narrow
dark green crossbars.
GCW
..
Very truly yours,
He was
Georgia C. Washburn
382