The Neish Island' in Loch Earn, where the
Macnabs massacred the MacNeishes in 1612.
The MacNeishes had, been defeated near
Comrie at Boltachan and a few survivors had
withdrawn to this artificial island, whence
they continued raiding the Macnabs. The
Macnab chief's eldest son, 'Smooth John'
or Iain Min Macnab, fiar of Bovain, with
three of his brothers, carried a boat from Loch
Tay overland some eight miles over the hills
and down Glen Tarken, and launched it at
nightfall on Loch Earn. The next day the
brothers returned to The Macnab's castle
on Eilean Ran on the river Lochay, and
brought their mother a sack from which they
emptied out the gory heads of their victims'.
(In 1965, The Black Watch territorials
successfully carried a boat all the way from
Loch Tay to Loch Earn over the same hills as
an energetic military exercise, in memory of
this historic operation). Eilean Ran Castle
214
was burnt by the Cromwellian English
invaders, after Íain Min Macnab, now himself
the Laird of Macnab, had been killed in an
attack on their occupying forces in Bread-
albane in 1653. The English commander in
Scotland reported that: 'the Lord MacKnab,
one of the great Montrossians, with his whole
clan, did rise upon our partie; and coming to
them, after some little parley (we having got
some of their cattel together) they offered our
partie free quarter, if they would lay downe
arms and return in peace. But our men, not
willing to be so affronted, stood upon their
defence; which the Highlanders perceiving,
sent
flight of arrows and a volley of shot
among them; and ours letting fly again at
them, killed MacKnab, the great chieftain of
that wicked clan, with four more, and fell
upon them and routed them all.'
Kinnell House, home of The Macnab. After
Eilean Ran Castle was burnt by the Round-
head English in 1654, the Macnab chiefs.
moved to Kinnell nearby. The walls of the
older part of the building are from three to
five feet thick. When an official came to
serve a writ on Francis, 16th Chief, the laird
went into hiding while the stranger was
lavishly entertained overnight. Meanwhile
a dummy was hanged on an elm-tree near the
house. When the official I woke with a
splitting headache and bleary eyes the next
morning and asked what was the grisly sight,
she told him 'Oh that's just a wee bit baillie
body that angered the Laird': whereupon the
bailiff fled without daring to serve the writ.'
The next chief, Archibald, took over so
burdened an inheritance that he was soon in
danger of being arrested for debt. So one
morning in 1823, he went out for a walk with
his gun and a of dogs, as usual; and
then just disap He never returned to
Kinnell. But his creditors tracked him in
Scotland and thence to London; and he had
to flee to Canada. The estates had to be so...
to the main creditor, the 4th Earl of Bread-
albane. and remained in Campbell hands until
1949, when Kinnell was recovered by another
Archibald Macnab of Macnab, the present
22nd Chief. (See also p. 14.)
In the greenhouse on the left of the picture
grows the famous Black Hamburgh vine. At
one time it was 192 feet long and considered
to be the largest vine in the world. Though
its branches at both ends have been cut back,
it still produces 600 bunches of grapes a year.
388