14
Macnab Newsletter
A SHORTER HISTORY OF CLAN MACNAB
'
The name "Macnab (however spelt) is from
the Gaelic "Mbic an Aba" and means "sons (or
children) of the Abbot." Originally there were
lay abbots, and according to tradition the Mac-
nab chiefs were descended from the younger son
of Kenneth McAlpine, King of the Scots, Abbot
of Glendochart and Strathearn, who united the
Scots and the Picts. Macnabs are members of a
larger dan grouping, Siol-an-Alpine Clan Al-
pine, with the MacGregors, MacKinnons,
Grants, Macquarries, and MacAulays.
The early history of Clan Macnab is bound up
with Saint Fillan, the later of two so named. He
was a Scot, the son of Feradach or Feriach, who
succeeded St. Mundus as Abbot of Kilmun,
then moved to Glendochart. The ruins of his
chapel are at Kirkton in Strathfillan; his "pod"
and "stone bed," supposed to cure the insane,
are still there. Other relics of St. Fillan, im-
portant to the Clan, still exist. His pastoral staff,
or crozier, (the Quigrich), which was carried be-
fore the Clan in battle, and his bell are in the
National Museum in Edinburgh. His "healing
stones" are at the Tweed Mill, Dochart Bridge,
Killin. He died on 9 January, 703 A.D.
Macnab country stretched from Tyndrum
west into Argyll, and east down Glendochart to
Killin, where the seat of the Clan was Macnab
Castle on Eilan Ran, an island on the north
bank of the River Lochay. This was at the west-
em end of Loch Tay, a point of great importance
when there were no roads and water was the
quickest means of transport.
The surname "Macnab" was first found in a
document dated 1124 AD in the reign of David
I. Angus Macnab, incensed by the murder of his
brother-in-law, The Red Comyn, by Robert the
Bruce, joined the Red Comyn's son-in-law, Mac-
Dougall of Lorn, and defeated the Bruce at the
Battle of Dalrigh in Strathfillan. The Bruce then
defeated MacDougall and Macnab at the Pass of
Brander, 1308, and Bannockburn, 1314. The
Macnab lands were forfeited, but in 1336, Gil-
best of Bovain received a charter from King Da-
vid II, and is regarded by the Lord Ly on as the
first chief. The Macnabe moved slowly down the
River Dochart. Before Bannockburn, the Chief
probably lived at Innishewan; Gilbert, the first
Chief, lived at Bovain. About 1400 Macnab
lands included Ardchyle, Invermonichele, Bo
vain, and Downich. The eighthChief, Finlay,
who died in 1525 at Eilan Ran and is buried at
Killin, granted lands of Ewer and Leiragan to his
wife, Mariat Campbell, for her lifetime. His eld-
est son was probably killed at Flodden in 1513.
Finlay's second son, John, succeeded him and
died in 1558. He and his wife rest in the burial
enclosure on the Ise of Inchbuie at Killin. Ow-
ing to the death of his son before him, Finlay
was succeeded by his brother, Alexander, whose
extravagances depleted the family fortunes.
Alexander had two sons, Finlay and Patrick
Mor of Acharn. Finlay was the father of
"Smooth John," famous warrior, and Duncan,
by his first wife, Katherine, daughter of Sir
Duncan Campbell of Glenorchy. By a second
wife Alexander had ten more sons; from the eld
est of these, Jahn Roy or Baine, the present
Chief is descended.
Trouble with the Clan Neish produced the
Chief's crest, "a savage's head erased," and the
motto, "Dread nought," or in Latin, Timor Om-
nis Abesto. Smooth John led his brothers in a
raid against the Neishes in reprisal for the latter's
raids, in particular taking a pack train of pro-
visions at Christmas 1612. The brothers carried
a boat through s snow over a 2,000 foot pass from
the head of Loch Tay to the head of Glen Ach-
em, and down the glen to the shore of Loch
Earn. They rowed to the Neishes' lair and de-
spatched them. Back at Eilan Ran Smooth
John answered the lookout's challenge with
"Fear Nought" (in Gaelic). From a sack on his
shoulder he rolled out the heads of some of the
Neishes, including the old Chief. There was
no more trouble from the Neishes.
Smooth John led the fighting men of Mac-
nab in support of the Duke of Montrose in the
Civil War They played a notable part in the vic-
tory of Kilsyth, but John was captured after un-
384A