Cherokee
The Trail of Tears occupies a special place in Native
American history. Many tribes have similar incidents
from their history, as this book shows. Yet this event
involving the Cherokees has come to symbolize the
land cessions and relocations of all Indian peoples,
just as Wounded Knee, involving the Sioux, has come
to represent the numerous massacres of Indian in-
nocents (see "Sioux").
Yet before we further discuss the Trail of Tears, we'll
take a look at the Cherokee (pronounced CHAIR-uh-
key) language and culture and other important events
in their history.
When Europeans first arrived in North America, the
Cherokees occupied a large expanse of territory in the
Southeast. Their homeland included mountains and
valleys in the southern part of the Appalachian chain.
The Cherokees had villages in the Great Smoky
Mountains of western North Carolina and the Blue
Ridge of western Virginia, as well as in the Great
Valley of eastern Tennessee. They also lived in the
Appalachian high country of South Carolina and
Georgia, and as far south as northern Alabama.
In Indian studies, this region of North America is
classified within the Southeast Culture Area (see
lines to catch different kinds of fish. Another method
included poisoning an area of water to bring the un-
conscious fish to the surface.
The Cherokees were also skilled hunters. They
hunted large animals, such as deer and bear, with
bows and arrows. To get close to the deer, they wore
entire deerskins, antlers and all, and used deer calls to
lure the animals to them. The Cherokees hunted
smaller game, such as raccoons, rabbits, squirrels, and
turkeys, with blowguns made from the hollowed-out
stems of cane plants. Through these long tubes, the
hunters blew small wood-and-feather darts with
deadly accuracy from as far away as 60 feet.
The products of the hunt were also used for cloth-
ing. In warm weather, Cherokee men dressed in buck-
skin breechcloths and women in buckskin skirts. In
cold weather, men wore buckskin shirts, leggings,
and moccasins; women wore buckskin capes. Other
capes, made from turkey and eagle feathers along with
strips of bark, were used by Cherokee headmen for
ceremonial purposes. Their leaders also wore feather
headdresses on special occasions.
Ceremonies took place inside circular and domed
council houses or domed seven-sided temples. The
temples were usually located on top of flat-topped
mounds in the central village plaza, a custom inherited
from the earlier Temple Mound Builders of the
Southeast (see "Mound Builders").
"Southeast Indians"). The Cherokees spoke dialects of
the Iroquoian language, the southernmost people to
do so. Their ancestral relatives, the Iroquois, lived in
the Northeast Culture Area (see "Iroquois").
The Cherokee name for themselves in Iroquoian
was Ani-yun-wiya, meaning "real people." The name
Cherokee was probably given to them by the neighbor-
ing Creeks-tciloki in its original form, meaning
"people of the different speech."
Lifeways
The Cherokees placed their villages along rivers and
streams, where they farmed the rich black soil. Their
crops included corn, beans, squash, pumpkins,
sunflowers, and tobacco. They grew three different
kinds of corn, or maize-one to roast, one to boil, and
a third to grind into flour for cornbread. The
Cherokees also took advantage of the wild plant foods
in their homeland, including edible roots, crab apples,
berries, persimmons, cherries, grapes, hickory nuts,
walnuts, and chestnuts.
The rivers and streams also provided food for the
Cherokees. They used spears, traps, and hooks and
Cherokee families, like other people of the
Southeast, usually had two houses a large summer
home and a smaller winter home. The summer
houses, rectangular in shape with peaked roofs, had
pole frameworks, cane and clay walls, and bark or
thatch roofs. The winter houses, which doubled as
sweathouses, were placed over a pit with a cone-
shaped roof of poles and earth. Cherokee villages
were usually surrounded with walls of vertical logs or
palisades, for protection from hostile tribes.
The Cherokees practiced a variety of crafts, includ-
ing plaited basketwork and stamped pottery. They
also carved, out of wood and gourds, Booger masks,
representing evil spirits. And they shaped stone pipes
into animal figures, attached to wooden stems.
Cherokee river cane basket
Cherokee cane-stalk blowaun plus darts
438
Cherokee Booger mask. The ferm booger, from which
bogeyman comes, is African in origin, taken by the
Cherokees from the native language of black slaves.
Among the many Cherokee agricultural, hunting,
and healing rituals, the most important was the Green
Corn Ceremony. This annual celebration, shared by
other tribes of the Southeast, took place at the time of
the ripening of the last corn crop (see "Creek").