small eagle feathers instead of three. If the chief-
tain is also a peer he
MOTTO
SLOGAN
may add the
I coronet of his rank on top of the
circlet, or he may wear his chief's
crest badge like any other clans-
man.
Armigers: Persons who have reg-
istered their own arms and crest or
hsve inherited them according to
the laws of Scotland from an-
cestors who recorded them in the
Lyon register [and matriculated
them personally with the Lord Lyon]
may wear their own crest as a
badge either on its wreath, crest, coronet or cha-
peau or, more usually, within a plain circlet in-
scribed with his motto. An armiger is entitled to
one eagle feather behind the circlet, and if also a
peer may add his appropriate coronet on top of
the airdet. An armiger may choose instead to
wear the crest badge of his chief.
Clansmen and Clanswomen: i.e.,
the chief's relatives, induding his
immediate family, even his eldest
son, and all members of the ex-
tended family called the "Clan,"
whether bearing the Clan's sur
name or that of one of its septs,
in short all those who profess al-
legiance to that chief and wish to
demonstrate their association
with the clan.
MOTTO
OR
SLOGAN
COOTED
-
It is correct for these to wear
their chief's crest encircled with a
strap and buckle bearing their
chief's motto or slogan. The strap
and buckle is the sign of teh clansman, and he
demonstrates his membership of his chief's dan
by wearing his chief's crest within it.
Although the crest badge is purchased by and
is therefore owned by the clansman, the heraldic
crest and motto on it belong to the chief and
not to the dansman. They are the chief's ex-
dusive heraldic property which the dansman is
only permitted to wear by grace of the chief. It is
illegal for the clansman to appropriate the
chief's crest and motto for any other personal
use, such as decorating his own silver, writing
paper, or signet ring. Legally, clan societies, of
Macnab Newsletter
19
ficials, and clansmen who have reason to use the
crest badge on stationery should add beneath it
the words "cr est badge of a member of the Clan
Mac..." to make it clear that the user is not mis-
appropriating the property of the chief.
It is the badge of all clansmen, whether mem-
bers of clan societies or not, and non-members
may not be excluded as long as they are clans-
men.
From Information leaflet No. 2, Court of the
Lord Lyon
MOTTO OR
LOGA
This familiar rendition of the crest badge is used
by the Clan Macnab Society, UK, the Clan
Macnab Society in California, and was used by
this society at its inception. Director B.G. Mac-
Nabb writes that he has articles with the same
rendition dating back more than fifty years, and
he remembers that the same rendition was used
by his father before him
Since the crest badge is not the property of
the Society but of the Chief of the Can, the ed-
itor, also speaking as chairman of the Board of
Directors, will continue to use the traditional
rendition above.
The editor sees no law or custom which for
bids a different artistic rendition of the crest
badge, as it is the heraldic description "a savage's
head erased" which is the proprietary item. He
would welcome any authoritative information,
preferably with citations, to darify this inter-
esting bit of punctilio.
We believe in artistic freedom and applaud
freehand renditions for the personal use of the
artist. But it comes down to custom, tradition,
taste, and "if it ain't broke...;" we will continue
to use the traditional crest badge.
☐
3840