18
in the series of battles which culminated in the total
defeat of the Caithness men at Altimarloch, three
miles from the town of Wick.
During the time of this Chief a robber on his way
home from a creach in Strathearn was met at the south
end of the Bridge of Dochart by Macnab who refused
to allow him to pass through the Macnab Lands. The
robber drew his sword and so furious was his attack
that Macnab was obliged to give way before him; but
Donald Mandach Macnab in the Sliochd of Kinnell
taking his chief's place forced the robber to surrender
his sword and give up his booty. The creach thus
recovered was restored to the plundered victims in
Strathearn.
Among the Government documents of 1678 is
a "list of the names of the Heads and branches
of families that are to come to Inverlochy and
give bond to the Commissioners of Council betwixt
and on the twenty day of November next," and first on
the list is Archibald MacNab of Aucharn; 3rd on the
list is Finlay M'Nab of Innis Ewen, and 4th last on
the list is James M'Nab in the Kirkton, of Strathfillan.
It was probably about that time that a robber who
lurked among the rocks at the head of Glenogle and
preyed upon unwary travellers was met and slain by
a member of the Clan.
In 1714 (March 13-22) James MacNab was pro-
secuted for the slaughter of one MacHomish by the
sword.
During the brief Campaign of the "Fifteen" the
Earl of Breadalbane and his brother-in-law Macnab of
Macnab remained at home, but their respective clans
are reported to have been "out" for the House of
Stewart. At that time the Jacobites had a large
19
permanent Camp in Strathfillan; and in 1719 a body
of Highlanders from that Camp marched north to
Glenshiel where they joined a party of Spanish troops
and fought against the Government forces under
General Whightman. The Highlanders claimed to
I have beaten the Government forces; but shortly after-
wards the Spaniards, disheartened by their wild
surroundings, were glad to surrender.
In 1724 General Wade moved through the Highlands
making his roads and collecting the arms of the Clans.
Next year he called upon the Macnabs to surrender
their arms, but in this instance he had to content him-
self with a refusal.
Throughout the troubles of the "Forty-five" the
Chief and his own immediate family were staunch
supporters of the Government. John Macnab his
eldest son fought as a Captain of the 42nd Regiment
at Prestonpans where he was taken prisoner by the
Jacobites and committed to Doune Castle for safe
keeping.
The Clan at large under Alexander Macnab of
Innishewen, Archibald Macnab of Acharn and Alan
Macnab of Dundurn fought for the Stewarts. Donald
MacNab, Brae Leing (sic), is the only Macnab whose
name is given in the "Lists of Rebels" supplied to the
Government by the Supervisors of Excise.
He was
That
a younger brother of Macnab of Innishewen.
other Macnabs were not named in the "Lists" is due
to the fact that in those days Glendochart was beyond
the reach of the Law and Excise. By this time 1745 Win
was
m
здонош
living
Augusta Co, Virginia
390