256
↓
394
Statiflical Account
Extent. On the W. the profpect from this parish i
bounded only by the Atlantic Ocean. The Ifles of Barra,
Uift, Sky, Rum, Egg, Canna, and Monk, with the hills of.
Morven, Moidart, Morthir, Arafaig, and Cnoidart, are feen
at a diftance, with Ardmurchan and Mull more in the
neighbourhood, and at near triple the diftance, Ifla, Jura,
Collonta, and Scarba, with the mainland of Argyle, may be
difcerned. The parith extends, nearly in a ftraight line,
from W. by S. to E. by N. about 29 Englifh miles, includ
ing the found. Of this extent, Tiry is about 11 miles long,
and near 2 broad, and Coll, about 14 long and 2 broad.
The whole contains nearly 25000 acres.
Surface, &c.-The coaft is moftly rocky, interfected with
many beautiful fandy bays, fome of them a mile broad at the
head. The Bay of Gott is about 2+ miles round the head;
and the ground fo firmn, that a horfe at full gallop makes an
impreflion not above half an inch deep. About the half of
Tiry is arable, interfperfed with fmall rocks and rifing
grounds. There are five or fix green hills; three of them
from 200 to 300 feet above the level of the fea. There are
24 lakes, covering about 600 acres, fome of which might be
eafily drained; trouts cannot live in them, owing to the in-
credible number of eels. There are no marthes and fcarce-
ly any dangerous hogs; for though a great part of this flat
furface, in a rainy feafon, be wet, the bottom is either rock
or firm fand. In the interior parts, about 1200 acres of
ground were, till within thefe three years, common to the
whole inhabitants, but they are now inclofed and included
in the adjacent farms. This ground is moftly heath, of very
fmall growth. The foil feems to have been of confiderable
depth, though, having been often cut for fuel, the rocks are
now expofed. At every bay lies invariably a tract of fandy
ground,
of Tiry.
257
395
ground, either arable, green mounts, or broken banks,
perhaps 40 or 50 feet high. This fand, in courfe of time,
driven by the winds, and not prevented by a coat of fea-
weeds, or heavy earth, afcends into the interior parts, and
lays wafte large tracks of ground.
Though Coll confifts alfo of low ground, it differs nuch
from Tiry. The coaft is bolder. Not above a 16th part of
it is arable. The inhabitants by induftry make good crops
by delving. Though rugged and unfriendly to the plough, it
affords excellent thelter for cattle. A very confiderable part
is heath, and moffy ground, partly convertible into arable.
It contains 48 finall lakes, 19 of them abounding in trouts.
:
The whole of Tiry and the two ends of Coll are the pro-
perty of the Duke of Argyle, who is allo patron. The middle
part of Coll above two thirds of the ifland) is the property of
the Laird of Coll, who chiefly refides in the parith. fra-
dition fays, that the whole property defcended, from Mac.
donald of the Ifles, to the Macleans. By marriage the Mac-
leans retained it' till the family of Argyle obtained right to
the greatelt part of Mull, Morven, and Tiry. The real rent
of the parish is near 2000 l.
Soil, Produce, Cultivation.-The foil of Tiry is various;
fandy, mofly, clay, and black carth, with their different com-
pofitions. The fandy foil prevails, and produces very poor
crops, except when very well manured. If fown early, there
is danger of blowing; if late, of fummer drought. The
country being flat, even a fhort continuance of rain endangers
the vegetation in the lower grounds. Two-thirds of the
whole arable ground are either too wet or too dry; and al-
molt the whole furface is expofed to ftorins. The returns,
communibus annis, are about 4 feed from barley, and 2+ from
fmall black oats (the prevailing forts of grain) and about 5
from
575