278
Statistical Account
already become agreeable, even to the old and illiterate.
Men at 70 years of age attend.
Sewing ſchools, and eſpecially spinning ſchools, are much
required, as the women in general are very backward in
theſe reſpects".
Emigration. Thirty-fix men, women, and children, emi-
grated from Coll to America in 1792. None hitherto has
emigrated from Tiry, though fome talk of doing fo. Their
crops failed in 1790 and 1791, which, together with the
low prices of kelp and cattle, has much reduced them. They
muft foon go fomewhere for relief, unleſs manufactures be
introduced to employ them.
Ferries. There is a ſtated ferry between Tiry and Coll,
often very dangerous, owing to a heavy fwell from the At-
lantic, to rapid currents and amazing breakers, over rocks
and ſhifting fands. There is a ſtated ferry between Coll and
Mull, 8 or 12 miles to the landing places. It is dangerous,
on account of rapid currents at Loch-Iothurn and the point
of Caileach in Mull, and difficult of accefs to the harbours.
There is no ſtated ferry between Tiry and Mull. The ſhort-
eft diftance from land to land is 21 miles; but above 30 be-
tween the ufual landing places. The fare for a flout boat
and hands here, is from 12s, to 15 s. For travelling cor-
refpondence and markets, there is great need of a packet be-
tween thefe ifles and Mull, eſpecially if Tobermory, the.
neareft poft office town, increafes. It is to be hoped, when
the
A few of the common people ſpeak English They all
fpeak Gaelic, which has a greater fimilarity to the moſt ancient,
than to the modern nguages. And as it has little dependence
upon other languages, it may not be fo copious; but it has this
great advantage, that the lowest peafant eaſily comprehends
the higheft ftile.
of Tiry.
279
the Crinan canal will be finished, that there will be an in-
creafe of trade in all the weſtern ifles, and that then, inſtead
of afking a falary, fome may find it their intereft to apply
for leave to keep packets. The run from Tiry to Crinan,
by the weft fide of Mull, will be ſtraight, and hardly ex-
ceeding 90 miles. Such a packet would find her buſineſs
daily increafe, from coals, marble, fiſh, beef, potatoes, &c.
Church and Stipend.-There are three places of worship in
the parish. The ftipends hitherto have not exceeded 501.
together with 161. 13 s. 4 d. in lieu of a manfe, glebe, and
communion elements. There is alſo a falary of 331. 6s. 3d. gi-
ven to an Affiftant in Coll. The whole teinds of the parish, by
decreets 1726, 1729, and 1733, are 211 bolls victual, two-
thirds bear, and one-third oat meal, together with 2941. 5 s.
6 d. Scotch. The ipfa corpora ftipend, or tenth part, was ta-
ken up fo late as 1752. There is now a process of augmen-
tation commenced. At Sorbie in Tiry was the mother church
of the deanry of the ifles.
Advantages and Difadvantages.-The only advantages we
can be faid to have, are, that the proprietors of thefe ifles
have always manifefted an inclination that their tenants should
live comfortably; that our lands, though impoverished, are ve-
ry improveable; and that the filling, if encouraged and attend-
ed to, may be very confiderable. The circumftances of not get-
ting falt without great plague and danger, and the markets turn-
ing out badly, when the firft attempts were made, have difcour-
aged the natives; whereas, in their fituation, they require not
only the countenance of the law, but even aid, at firft, to pur-
chafe lines, harpoons, &c. It is neceffary alfo to improve
the harbours. For this purpoſe, many veffels that frequent
the ifland would chearfully pay a fmall anchorage, even with-
out
586