262
Statistical Account
Minerals. Hard whinſtone prevails in this parish, yet
there is frequently ironſtone and granite, and in one farm
abundance of limestone and marble. The qualities of the Ti-
ry marble are now well known; it is fometimes
pure white;
fometimes red and white, or white and green; and fome-
times variegated with numberlets figures. It is to be hoped
a correfpondence will be continued, a market procured, and
a marble work carried on.-There is also a lead mine at
Croffapol in Coll.
Animals. The hill of Ceanmharra, the weft point of Tiry,
is very remarkable for a great number of large natural caves,
frequented, in time of hatching, by innumerable flocks of fea-
fowls. The height of fome of the caves 160 feet, the fea
bellowing in below, and thouſands of fowls, with difcordant
notes, crouding upon the cliffs, form a hideous fcene. In
other magnificent caves, the raven, the hawk, or the eagle,
build their lofty nefts. Separate from all thefe, the pigeons
have chofen their habitations: Hither their enemy, at the rifk
of his life, defcends a very unpleaſant ſtair, carrying fire and
a bundle of ftraw, to which he fets fire. The finoke fuffocat-
ing them, they fly into the flames, attached to the light, ap-
parently the paffage to eſcape; thus numbers of them are
caught. At the diftance of 6 leagues weftward from this
hill, lie a clufter of unhofpitable rocks, called Sceir-mhor, to
which young adventurers, before fun rifing in a calm fummer
day, go in queft of ſport. The ſkins of the fea-calves, the
old inhabitants of theſe rocks and feas, which they kill with
clubs or bullets, commonly meaſure from fix to eight feet
in length.
Three forts of wild geefe frequent theſe ifles. About the
beginning of April, they all go off to places of greater fecuri-
ty and ſhelter for hatching, and return as foon as their young
are
of Tiry.
263
are able to accompany them. When feeding in the mea-
dows, or fields, they are fure to keep at a diftance from rocks
When flying
and dykes, and have conftantly a centinel.
they form an angle about 45 degrees inclined. The geofe
in the angle leads the reft, till he changes his place, and a
neighbour fucceeds him. Swans alfo, in finaller companies
with their melodious march, come as paffengers upon the
lakes. Many thouſands of gray plovers are feen together,
efpecially upon the reef or great plain; they. obferve the
fame feafon with the wild-geefe in hatching elſewhere. The
green plovers hatch in the iſland. Rails are very numerous.
Moufe coloured fwallows inhabit the fand banks. The cuc-
koo is very rarely feen. Magpies, and many other birds
which are upon the mainland, never appear. There are
neither ferpents, toads, frogs, weafels, nor venomous crea-
tures of any kind. Rabbits are numerous, lodging in the
fand in the caft end of Coll; and a couple of hares introduc-
ed there, about 7 years ago, are increaſed to many hund-
reds *.
Climate,
Antiquities. There are many ſigns of Danish invaders
having for fome time poffeffed thefe ifles. Among theſe are
Fingalian and other tales repeated by the inhabitants, mention-
ing engagements and the names of chieftains. At this day they
point out their burying-places, whence the ground derives its
name. Nor are their dins, forts, or watch-towers, lefs re-
markable. There are 39 remains of them in the two iflands,
generally built on rocks, round the whole coalt, and within
fight of fome other. They are faid to have been uſed, when
an enemy appeared, for fuddenly alarming the country by the
fignal of fire. There are two walls without any appearance of
Jime or other cement. The inner is circular, and the outer often
affumes the figure of the rock on which it is founded.
whole of thele ifles and a confiderable part of the mainland
were named Infeadh. Gaul, which fignities the ifles or places of fe-
curity for frangers.
The
There are 15 remains of old chapels or churches, at fome of
which are burying grounds and croffes ſtill to be feen. There
is
578