260
398
Statifical Account
of 1790 and 1791, they hardly diftilled 300 bolls; and bought,
each fucceeding year, above 2000 bolls of meal at a very high
rate, and their feed potatoes at 5 s. per barrel *.
Woods. It plainly appears that wood formerly grew in
this parith, when thinly inhabited and fewer cattle reared.
Frequently large pieces of trees are found in meffes; though
now there is not a tree in it, nor is it probable that upon
trial any would thrive in it, the fituation being fo far in the
ocean and without thelter. There are, indeed, ſome ſmall
twigs 2 or 3 feet long growing in Coll, which is better fhel-
tered than Tiry. Efpaliers rife the height of a wall, and ber-
ry buthes thrive when theltered in gardens. The laird of
Coll planted a large garden. The berry bushes thrive in
it, but the young trees, though promiting at firft, foon dif
cover that this is not their climate.
The Duke of Argyle fupplies his tenants gratis, with tim-
ber out of his woods on the fide of Lochfunart, 60 or 70
Iniles off; yet it often becomes a dangerous and dear purchaſe,
requiring the hire of boats and hands for a fortnight or up-
wards. The dampnefs of the air, and blowing of fand, upon
many of the houſes, foon rot the roofs, and make the de-
mand frequent and expenfive.
Waters,
The boll of barley fells from 16s. to 11. and ſmall oats at
half thefe prices. Potatoes from 1 s. to 2 s. 6d. per barrel. The
gentlemen rear fo well, and the fmall tenants have fo few
cattle, that very little butter or cheeſe is made; 24 lib. English
of each fell at 18s.; beef from 11. 10 s. to 21. per barrel; fresh
fizeable cod at 3d.; ling 6d.; fwine from 5s. to 10s.;
Theep from 4s. to 6s; hens and ducks 6d.; and live cows
from 11. 6s. to 31. 10s. Having no fixed markets of any
kind in the parish, nor way to lend to them, we labour under
this great difadvantage, that, when we abound. we get no ar-
ticles fold. and when we mult buy, it is commonly at the high-
et rate: When provifions are too cheap, it is not fo much ow
ing to the great abundance as to the want of a market.
of Tiry.
261
399
Waters, Mills, &c.-Though there be a great number of
brooks, Tiry mills feldom can be wrought for want of water
or fufficient falls, above five or fix months yearly. This
makes it neceffary, either to fend our grain at a great expence
to other countries, or ufe querns or hand-inills. By the low-
eft calculation, the work of 50 women is yearly loft at grind-
ing. This, with the great lofs of grain, which we experience,
the lofs of other labour, time, and expences, amounts yearly
to feveral hundred pounds Sterling. But there is now ex-
pectation of a wind-mill *.
Minerals.
It is remarkable that at the heads of creeks and bays,
there are frequently banks formed of fmall round ftones covered
with earth, feemingly formed by the violence of the fea, though
now far above high water mark.
There is a plain, called the Reef, near the center of Tiry,
reckoned by travellers a very great curiolity. It is almoft a
pentagon of 1200 Scotch acres, with a fandy bottom moftly co-
vered with black earth ten inches deep, a beautiful carpet va-
riegated with flowers. It ſeems to have been gained from the
fea; the work of ages. The part next the ſhore has received
confiderable additions within the prefent generation. It has
three curved green banks, each about two feet high, upon
which it appears the fea had formerly beat. Between thefe
banks the ground is furpriſingly plain. The greatest height
above high water mark is about fix feet, except a fmall
hill near the center, nine feet higher. The whole Reef is a
green
common untouched by a plough. Upon the top of this hill,
looking backwards from under the arm, all the objects upon the
plaun are feen inverted. This plain is bounded on one fide by
Faothail, or a fmall channel with a meandring current, fofmootle
that the motion is fcarcely perceptible. It branches towards the,
head, which is within one third of a mile to the other flore.
When fwelled with rain and a high ſpring tide, being without
a bridge, it greatly obftructs travellers. Here there is fome
danger of the ifland being cut in two, to prevent which a bar-
ricade of ftone and earth was raifed on the oppofite fhore, in
one part; and the violent forms have raifed a high bank of
round ftones in another; yet the impetuons furge fometimes
baffles the whole. There is the like danger near the weft end
of Coll among the fand banks.
577