258
396
Statiflical Account
from potatoes, of which a great quantity is planted, moftly
in lazy beds. Drilling potatoes is now introduced. The
increafe is from 8 to 20 feeds, and the incumbent has feen
it at 32. They tell of far fuperior increafe in grain, when
the land was in good condition. There were then ſcarcely
tenants fuflicient to occupy the lands, though now. they are
fo numerous, that the ground is fet in too finall portions to
accommodate perhaps 12 or 24 of them in one farm, each
paying from 1 to 41. 4s. of yearly rent. The confequence
is, they plough as much as they can; and their lands are
impoverished, as they feldom get reit. Above two-thirds of
the manure are fea-weed. The great quartity of falt they
contain is, indeed, poifon to many weeds; but as they foon
putrify and diffolve, and, as a flimulus, produce their effect,
they cannot last long, nor add much to the foil, having but
little earth. Till the middle of June, the cattle are fuffered
to pafture on the corn, which alfo very much prevents a bet
ter return. Such practices, with the unfavourable climate,
make the crop precarious. The foil of Coll, though broken
with rocks, is preferable, and the returns are in proportion,
Repeated trials have been made of fowing great white oats.
The ground was either poor, too dry or too wet. They did
not ripen as early as the native oats, and could not withſtand.
the torms. Often they did not return even their feed,
though they might anfwer well in fome fpots, if inclofed,
drained, and fown carly. The parish is under a great dif
advantage in not getting a more frequent change of different
feeds; and that is never enjoyed unleſs by a few gentlemen,"
at a very high expence, with many difappointments. In-'
troducing peafe, turnips, and other roots, and green crops in
general, would be a great improvement, eſpecially in this *
foil and climate. The native flax is fcarcely 18 inches long;'
and there are no ways of drefling it expeditiously, whereby
it
of Tiry.
it becomes a dear manufacture.
259
397
A few experiments of fow-
ing grafs turned out well. The natural grafs of moſt of the
fields is red and white clover and daily. Frequent but thort
rains, mixing different foils as manures, ufing compoft dung-
hills, with a great number of drains and inclofures, may pro-
mife a joyful harvest.
Seed Time, Harvest, &c.-The ordinary time of fowing oats
and planting potatoes is from 26th March to the 10th May;
and for barley from the 30th April to the 20th June. The
harveft generally begins about the middle of Auguft, and is
finifhed about the 10th October. The farmers cannot well
begin fowing earlier, owing to wet lands, fand blowing, and
trefpafs of cattle; but they might to great advantage finiſh
earlier. What moftly prevents it is, that barley is the pre-
vailing crop, which gets two and fometimes three ploughings,
and fo confumes much time.
Now, as they are bufy incloſing, and can therefore pre-
ferve their grounds, it is to be hoped they will attend to this
particular, whence the following great advantages might
arife They might earlier fow their corn and hay, provide
I fuel, manufacture their kelp, fifh more, and, what is now
hardly thought of, manure and otherwife improve part of
their farms in fummer, and then finish their harveft carlier
and fafer; and fo the whole annual rotation of work would
be more feafonable.
The inhabitants commonly ferve themfelves in meal, feed,
and fpirits. Hardly any foreign fpirits are now imported.
The laft feafon proved rather better. A few years ago they
ufually fold from 200 to 300 Scotch gallons of whiſky to
the neighbouring iſlands. The parish had then upwards of
30 fills, but is now reduced to three ſmall licenfed ones.
Now the inhabitants are increaſed; and, in the bad feafons
of
576