276
Statiflical Account
no robbery, murder, or fuicide. In general they are fubtile,
and not eafily deceived. They are mannerly, lively, and in-
genious, very hofpitable to ſtrangers, and kind to the diftref
fed. And though it be impoffible to answer for the behavi
our of all the common people, if left at liberty, the ſhipwreck-
ed have always found protection and ſafety from the beſt fa-
milies.
Tradition tells us of the remarkable ftature, ſtrength, and
valour, of John the Great, the laird of Coll's predeceffor.
He, in feveral battles, conquered the Macneils of Barra, who
pretended right to his lands, and eſtabliſhed himſelf in the
heritage, handed down to him from Macdonald of the Ifles.
The Macniels burying-grounds are pointed out to day, in
many places in Coll. Though Neil his brother was not near
equal in ftrength, he could raife to his breaft three fiones, on
top of each other, weighing at leaſt 16 cwt. The ſtones re-
main ftill at the place.
A country man, who died laft year about feet
5
10 inches
high, was employed by the laird of Coll as poft to Glasgow
or Edinburgh. His ordinary burden thence to Coll was 16
ftone. Being once ftopt at a toll near Dumbarton, he hu-
morously afked whether he ſhould pay for a burden, and up-
on being anfwered in the negative, carried his horfe in his
arms paft the toll.
Indeed, though of an ordinary ſize, the people are remark-
able for agility. They frequently entertain themſelves by
compofing and finging fongs, by repeating Fingalian and
other tales, by dancing affemblies at different farms by turns.
In this qualification they are remarkably neat. They are ve-
ry chearful and humorous, and there are not above two or
three of either fex corpulent in either ifle.
Poor
of Tiry.
277
Poor and Schools. They are very attentive to the poor in
fickneſs and want. They rarely have cafh, but liberally be-
ftow grain, &c. The kirk feffion funds do not afford to
give annually above 3 s. to each of 50 poor in Tiry, and 34
in Coll. There are alfo 5 s. or 6 s. allowed to help their in-
terments.
Whatever thefe Iſlanders may be behind their neighbours,
any where on the mainland, is wholly owing to their great
difadvantages as to education. I hope the period is now
arrived when the cloud fhall be dispelled. Till lately there
were only 101. of a parochial falary for a ſchool. Nine
years ago, the Society in Scotland for Propagating Chriftian
Knowledge, beftowed 101. for another ſchool. Thefe two
fchools generally had not ten ſcholars each. The people
had not tafte for education, and there were complaints againſt
the teachers. The Society have, fince the Reverend Dr.
Kemp's vifit, added to theſe falaries a fum that enables the
teachers to teach ail gratis, and beftowed a number of books
upon them. The Duke of Argyle is pleafed to add fo much
for provifions which the pariſh ſhould make. A falary is
now granted, by the Society, for a ſchool in Coll. I doubt
not but they shall henceforth be all well attended, if the
fchoolmasters be well chofen. There are now often from 60
to 80 fcholars in each. From whatever fource funds may
be obtained to accomodate this parish properly, Tiry requires
4 fchools and Coll two.
. Our congregations were untaught fingers, till the begin-
ning of this year. An itinerant church mufic teacher, with
a fmall falary, employed by the Society for Propagating
Chriftian Knowledge, was fent for. He teaches at so cheap
a rate, that it is belived 800 or 900 in the parish will attend
him this year. The good effects may be great. Singing is
already
585