268
Statiflical Account
cupied by fmall tenants, 1200 or 1500 males and females,
above eight year old. might be ſpared for fishing and other
manufactures. For which purpoſe, wherever the fituation
admits of it, every farm, eſpecially thoſe from 30 to 200 in-
habitants, fhould be fubdivided and incloſed to one, or at
moft four tenants each divifion. Thefe few would be more
difpofed to improve their farms than now, in common with
many, whofe main ſtudy is to plough all they can, though
but ill prepared for a good crop. Numerous inhabitants are
agreeable, and have their uſes. Here they may be made ftill
more numerous; but when with a view to ferve them all,
lands in common are divided into very fall portions, fuch
families can never thrive. If the fuperfluous number of ten-
ants were converted into manufacturers, the remaining ones
would be more eafily enabled to pay their rents, even if aug-
mented, live better, educate their children, and fell more to
fupport the manufacturers. who in return would enrich the
country from a variety of fources. As this parish, when im-
proved, might fupport a village in moſt of the neceifaries of
life, befides the above divifions, for the encouragement of
tradefmen, a convenient fituation fhould be chofen for inclo-
fures of a few acres, for greens, roots, grafs feeds, &c. which,
though fome of them could not afford to keep a horfe, they
might improve like a garden with the ſpade, or by occafion-
ally hiring a horſe or plough. Lands, in common with
others, would ruin a tradeſmen, whereas fuch feparate pof-
feffions would caufe a great emulation for improvements, and
would be equally to the advantage of proprietors and tenants.
The ingredients with which any country abounds, point
out the manufactures proper to begin with. Accordingly, as
part of this foil could produce good flax, the culture of, and
preparation of it fhould be studied, as none of thefe are well
understood here. The abundance of a fuperior quality of
clay,
of Tiry.
269
clay, points out another fource of manufactures. Applying
kelp might be applied to feveral uſes, falt fo convenient to
the western fisheries, might be made here. Several other
manufactures, of which the materials are eafily imported,
might be tried, fuch as working of nets, ſtockings, &c. The
marble alfo might employ many hands. Above all, fishing
should never be neglected in Tiry and Coll, one of the beſt
ftations in all the weſtern ifles. The attempts that have been
made, and the feveral fithing banks daily difcovered confirm
this. The country being flat, the feas near it will not na-
turally be deep. Some of the banks are close to the fhore.
Experienced fishers obferve that, of all the places they know,
this is nearest to the fishing grounds In fummer 1787, there
were feveral companies of natives employed, and, though of lit-
tle experience, they caught at one fetting of 200 or 300 hooks,
from 30 to 80 cod and ling, befides a variety of fcate, eels,
dol-fith, &c. and those who had harpoons and lines caught at
the fame time fail-fith, each yielding from 5 to 8 barrels off.
Herrings frequent the bay of Gott, yet there are no nets on
the ifland. There are yearly companies from Barra, who
prefer this to their own ifland, especially as lefs fatiguing.
Thefe having more experience, are more fucceſsful than our
men. There have been alfo adventurers from Ireland and the.
eaft of Scotland fuccefsful. In one floop particularly, though
they concealed their fuccefs, they feemed, from their heaps
upon the fhore, to have caught in 2 months, from 12000 to
160co cod and ling. There are, this year, fome companies
from Barra, one from Ayr, and one only of the natives. They
commonly catch from 100 to 240 per day, fo that fometimes
they do not raife their whole lines at once; their boats not
being able to carry the fith athore. Notwithſtanding fuch a
promifing profpet, of their having, with a great number of
fifhing yawls, 10 boats in the parish, partly decked, which
carry
581