264
402
Statiflical Account
Climate, Difcafes, Population, &c.-Durable froft or fnow
is very rare, and the air is tempered by the fea; yet it may
be called a cold climate, in winter, without any fheler. It
may alfo be called rainy three fifths of the year. When there
is
is at the chapel of Kilkeneth in Tiry a burying ground fo fandy,
that, by blowing, heaps of human bones are feen, and coffins of
ten expofed, before half cenfumed. It is now furrounded by
fand banks higher than the fide walls; they no longer bury
here. Along the coalts, in many parts, are buried the remains
of drowned perfons caft alhore. At the above hill of C-anm.
harra, on a very rugged declivity, is fituated St. Patrick's temple.
The veftige of a wall inclofes it in one third of an acre of land.
It is 26 by 11 feet within walls; the fide walls 5 feet high; one
gable fix inches thicker than the other, without a roof, and ill
built of lone and lime. A ſquare altar in the east end is ftill 18
inches high. The croſs without the pedeftal 4 feet. Within 60 *
yards of it, at the fhore on the top of a rock, is made a hollow, 2 feet
diameter and 4 deep, called by the country people St Patrick's
Vat. There are 9 or 10 long (tones, in different parts of the
parish, feemingly erected as monuments British, Danish, and
other fmail filver coirs, in fuall earthen veffels, have often been
dag out of moffes and fandy ground. Two years ago, was dif
covered a bent tubular piece of gold about 21. value, the two.
ends not clofely joined, and not unlike a fort of ear-ring. In a
flack yard at Cornaigbeg in Tiry, in digging pits in fandy
ground to fecure potatoes during winter and fpring, there were
found at different times human skeletons, and nigh them the
keletons of hoifes. They feemed to have been compleatly armed, "
according to the times. Two handed fwords were found dimi
nifhed with ruft; filver work preferved the handles; there were
allo fhields and helmets, with a brafs fpear. Nigh this was dif
covered another fkeleton, holding the skeleton of an infant in
its arms. It is propofed to dig more of this ground. Some of
thefe emiolitics are in the poffeflion of the Duke of Argyle."
In Coll near the family feat (a good modern houſe three fto-.
ries high with wings, &c.) is the old habitation, a fquare built
callle, with turrets and fome lower additions. The main build..
ing is fill roofed; the whole apartments are diflinct. Near the
center of Tiry is a lake with an ifland in it, whereupon was
built a fimilar caftle; the accefs by a made road and draw bridge.
Upon the ruins of this, in 1748, was erected a houfe with a gar-
den for the Duke of Argyle's factor. The ifland was fometime
ago made a peninsula.
of Tiry.
265
423
is froft on the mainland, there is often mild weather in thefe
iflands; when finow in the one, there is often but rain in the
other. The rain water lodges on this flat furface; and with
the exhalations from fo many lakes, in calm weather, often
rifes in mift. An inland country, in this damp fituation,
would be very unhealthy; but the healthy fea air generally
drives away whatever is noxious. The houfes of the com-
mon people are generally in dry fituations and remarkably
warm, built as ufual in fandy iflands (partly through want
of ſtones, which are ill to quarry, but moftly out of choice,)
of an inner and outer fingle wall, filled up in the middle with
Ifandy earth from 4 to 6 feet thick. The people are lively,
induftrious, and chearful, and often engaged in active em-
ployments, in the open air; yet the dampnefs of the place,
'the want of proper firing, and the poor living of many, feem
to be the great caufes of frequent rheumatifms, dyfeutaries,
and nervous fevers. Draining of the lakes, and flat grounds,
may add much to the falubrity of the place. Both ifles, up-
on the whole, appear to be healthy from the great age to
_which many of the inhabitants attain.
Number of fouls in Tiry,
in March 1792
Males
Females
Under 10
From 80 to 90
7
2416
From 90 to 100
5
1184
Annual average of bap-
1232
tifins in Tiry, for 6
663
years
95
From 10 to 20
573
Marriages ditto "
16
737
Families
467
270
77
Workmen
66
22
Cottars
131
From 90 to 100
Above 100
I
Families in Coll
199
I
Farmers
97
Number
From 20 to 50
From 50 to 70
From
70 to 80
From 80 to 90
334 Farmers
579