272
Statiflical Account
for a mile inwards. There is a good place for a quay by it.
It were to be wished that this bay was better known, being
moft convenient for veffels which do not hold through the
founds, and might prevent many ſhipwrecks, one of which
happened fo lately as March laft. There are alfo on the S.
fide of Coll, Loch-Iothuirn and Loch Breacachy, ſtations
where veffels frequently anchor, and which might be much
improved. A knowledge of thefe harbours is the more ne-
ceffary, as there are in many places on the coafts a great
fwell, ftrong currents, and many rocks, as Sceir-mhor weft-
ward, and the Cairn of Coll caftward.
Sheep, Black Cattle, and Horfes.-A few years ago there
were at leaſt 14,oco ſheep in thefe ifles. The Laird of
Coll banithed them aloft out of his lands. The inclemency
of the feafons reduced them in Tiry. There are not now
above 1100 in the parish. Though in other countries a moft
beneficial ftock, they are moſt deftructive, efpecially to Tiry.
There is not a fufficient range for them. They do not thrive
in fummer owing to certain weeds; nor in winter on account
of the wetnefs of the paſture. Where the grafs is thin and
fhort, they tear up by their feet the very roots for food.
They lodge in hollows for fhelter, and fo break the fward,
and expofe the fand to be driven by the winds, whence whole
fields are ruined, becoming white banks. Tiry pafture is al-
ready too fine. Sheep convert the little coarfe grafs there is
into a finer pile, to the great prejudice of black cattle, as it
fubjects them, when ferried to another country, to the dif
temper called murrain or bloody urine, and confequently re-
Juces a third of their price, till they get one winter's ſcafon-
ing effewhere. Yet if the sheep were banished, it would be
neceffary to contract for years with ſheep-graziers, whereby
wool might be provided to the inhabitants at a moderate rate.
of Tiry.
273
The black cattle of Tiry and part of Coll, which have no
accefs to pafture in heathy ground, are fubject as above to
the murrain, or in Gaelic airneach, probably from its affecting.
the kidneys. It ſeems to be communicated either from the
milk or fine grafs, or from both. However, when ſheep are
banished, the coarſe grafs incloſed and encouraged to grow,
being the beſt pafture for calves and young cattle, it becomes
at leaft fuch a feaſoning as may prevent the above diftemper.
Then fuch cattle, deducing the inconveniencies of ferrying,
might moft probably fell as high as any in the Highlands.
There are beautiful cattle reared here, especially of late,
which, when fent to English paſture, grow to an amazing
fize. One of them, of which we lately had an account, fed
by Mr Spearman of Northumberland, 1790, weighed in beef,
tallow, and hide, 117 ftone 5½ lib.
Except upon gentlemens farms, who occupy two fifths of
the land, there is not one third more of black cattle than of
horfes. This cannot be effectually rectified by the prefent
divifion of the lands and plan of huſbandry.
Number of horſes in
'Tiry
Number of Sheep
1400
Number of horfes in
Coll
500
-
600 Number of ſheep
500
245
160 Ploughs
Tons of kelp manufac-
tured
55
34
1800
Black cattle
1300
-
260 Ditto yearly ferried
250
3°
Tons of kelp manufac-
tured
Ploughs
Black cattle
Ditto yearly ferried
Ditto ditto flaughtered
70 Ditto ditto flaughtered
A few years ago the number of horſes was much greater;
orders were given to reduce them in both iflands. A four year
old native horfe fells from 21. to 51. In Tiry, they might
The
be
583