270
Statiflical Account
carry from 3 to 14 tons, of their lying fo conveniently upon
the fpot, and of having many hardy feamen amongst them,
they do not, in this diſtrict, purſue the fishing with fpirit.
The reafons are obvious. They are moſtly farmers having a
fmall portion of land, in common with many, which requires
daily attendance. Farming in common, and other branches
of bufinefs, can never thrive in the fame hands. Poor people
who have a fure, though perhaps a ftarving way of ſupport-
ing their families, feldom riſk their ſmall fortunes, and of
their own accord begin a new branch of bufinefs. The dan-
ger of not being fucceſsful frightens them. When a confider-
able ftock is neceffary for fitting them out, the plan is relin-
quifhed as ideal. Surely the expence in boats, hands, hooks,
harpoons, lines, &c. is confiderable, and the florms otten
break their lines and buoys. If a man could ſpare, from his
daily employment, time to catch 200 or 300 cod and ling,
they turn out to little avail without a purchafer at hand. The
good effects of the Crinan canal are only yet feen at a dif.
tance. If the fither cures with prohibited falt, they are feiz-
able on the way to market; he finds it too chargeable for his
fmall cargo, to vifit the cuſtom-houſe ſo often, and obferve
all its regulations for falt, nor indeed does he underſtand
them, he prefers to give triple price for it elfewhere. I have
feen country lads from neglect of forms like to be ruined,
and even gentlemen who knew buſineſs fuffer much. If theſe
regulations must be kept in force without exception, without
amendment, a bar to fithing, ſhould not fome well wither to.
his country collect and explain them to low capacities? Thus
in the fmall attempts, the great things that might arife from
them are in effect difcouraged.
Procuring aid to the natives, from fome public fund, to
purchaſe lines, hooks, harpoons, &c. would raife a fpirit of
emulation to make more attempts, especially as an eafy com-
munication
of Tiry.
271
munication with Clyde will foon be opened. Some perfon
refiding conftantly in the parish, with a ſtore of falt to pur-
chafe whatever quantity might be caught, even in winter and
fpring, when fome of the fith are beft in feafon, might be of
effential fervice. But of all encouragements to make them
perfevere, the beft is, to improve fome harbours or creeks in
the moſt convenient places; at leaſt one upon the N. fide,
convenient for the great bank between Tiry and Barra, but
one third nearer Tiry; and on the S. fide Scairnib, the
common harbour, which admits of confiderable improve-
ments. In its prefent flate the entrance is very dangerous,
being too long, and in moft places not above 40 yards wide,
between two rocks, and a third lying cross at the very en-
trance. When in ftormy weather the wind is S. or W. a
heavy fwell froin the Atlantic enters the harbour. When
the wind is N. N. by E. or N. W. a veffel that might come.
within a few fathoms of the fhore, muſt ſheer off again to
fea in a form. When within the harbour, the wind may be
many days fair for a voyage, but a veffel cannot get out of it.
At once to prevent fuch misfortunes and make the ifland
much more valuable, a fmall expence may build a quay, at
leaft as far out as it cbbs, to be fecured from the impetuous.
furge, partly with timber and iron, but moftly with loofe
ftones behind, which are at hand. A fhort quay at each
fide of the entrance, overlapping each other, with fmall breaft
works within, may be the moft eligible. Near this, on the
W. fide of the bay of Gott, is excellent anchoring ground.
It opens fouthwards, is within 2 miles of the E. end of the
ifland, and runs near 2 miles into the land. The bottom is
fand mixed with clay and fea grafs; and, though fometimes
there be a fwell, I have feen veffels ride, in great ſtorms,
without driving one foot. The entrance is very fafe, and the
depth gradually decreaſing, from 16 fathoms, to the finalleft
for
582