274
Statiflical Account
What
be reduced to 250 good ones, with fome mares.
makes the ploughs fo very numerous, is, that commonly they
only plough from the beginning of March to the 20th June.
- At leaſt one third of the kelp is made of wrack, caft by
ftorms upon the fhores.
The black cattle and horfes are moſtly in a ftarving con-
dition. The latter, when their paſture is very bare in win-
ter and ſpring, tear up the ground with their feet to come at
the roots. Many tenants keep two or three cows, which
I have not a calf for years together. One informed me of his
having a cow ten years old, that never had but one calf. An-
other, that he keeps three or four cows, but had not a calf
for fix years.
Agriculture, &c.-Incloſures are lately begun. The above
facts fhew the neceffity of continuing them, and fubdividing
farms to a few tenants that may be able to keep carts. After
a little amendment of the roads, with the money that is raif-
ed, or the fervices that may be exacted, there is no country
better calculated for them. As yet there are only five in the
parish. A fmall light Scotch plough is moſtly uſed. Great
is the neceffity of getting timber, and a proper wright. The
method of ploughing by one man, two horfes, and long reins,
is ufed only by two in the parish; but might very eafily be
practifed by getting a ſtronger breed of horſes. Inftead of
this, 4 men and 7 horfes often attend the fame furrow; two
men and 5 horfes the plough; 2 men and 2 horſes the riftle, or
fharp iron nearly the ſhape of a coulter, but bent further for-
ward, and like it fixed in a beam, with two handles to cut
the tough fward before the plough, which follows in the fame
line. When in one farm 4 or 13 ploughs are fet agoing,
and 30 cr perhaps 96 horfes with creels fent to carry fea-ware
off the shore, befides fome idle mares and followers, fuch a
of Tiry.
275
farm takes many hands and horſes, and labouring muſt prove
dear. A change of method is indeed required; and fishing
with manufactures to employ fo many fuperfluous hands.
Though the people be naturally attached to their ancient
modes, yet whenever they fee new methods purfued to per-
fection in inclofed farms, and work carried on much more
profitably, expeditiously, and cheaply, they will readily com-
ply.
Character and Customs of the People.-The common people
are not very attentive to the ordinances of religion, but are
now reforming, as the gentlemen fhew them a good example.
They ftill retain fome Roman Catholic fayings, prayers, and
oaths, as expletives; fuch as Dias Muire let, i. e. God and
Mary be with you. Air Muire,' fwearing by Mary, &c.
They are free of fuperftition, and make a confiderable progrefs
in knowledge. There is no fchifm from the established
church; and none of any other perfuafion, except now and
then a few Roman Catholic fervants from Barra. It is a
great advantage to their morals that there are only three li-
cenfed fmall ftills, and four public houſes at the ferries and
harbours in both ifles. For generations back, there has been
no
About 4 years ago, the yearly wages and gratuities of a labour-
er amounted only to 21. 12 s. and of a female fervant to 11. but
they are now increaſed near a third, owing moftly to the fer-
vants frequenting the low country. Small tenants give them
much more. Another caufe of the increaſe of wages is the en-
lifting fo many men for the army, particularly the fencible corps,
with promifes of poffeffions to their friends or to themſelves at
their return. Hence partly fo many ſmall divifions of lands
and the poverty of the tenants. Workmen with their families
are engaged for a fourth or fifth of the whole crop and grafs.
In fome countries they can more easily triple thefe wages; their
poffeffions, their foil, their markets, and plans of labouring, can
better afford it. Tradesmen have from 7 d. to 1 s. 2 d. per day,
belides victuals.
farm
584