683
280
Statistical Account
out the trouble of an act of Parliament. Humanity will feel
for our difmal fituation without a Surgeon. The want of a
proper mill is a heavy grievance, and the loſs of ſeveral hun-
dred pounds Sterling. We are in great need of markets, and
cafier communication with towns; and alſo of a village and
manufactures within ourſelves, to occupy our fuperfluous
hands. We need much a change of feed, introducing of
green crops, incloſing, draining, and fubdividing ſmall farms.
How can we improve our farms without tradefmen, carts,
a better breed of horfes to expedite our labour, and ba-
nishing fo many hundred weak horſes. to rear black cattle in
their place? We ſpend the beſt ſeaſon of the year, which
fhould be otherwife ufefully employed, in providing fuel, in
ruining the face of our farms; while there is fuch an unequal
duty upon coals, and yet we muſt foon buy them at what-
ever price. Our loyal and vigorous youth are ready, at a
call, to ferve their King and country; and if any place in
Scotland can claim a preference, in an exemption from the
coal duty, it is this Atlantic Ifle.
This was written before the late repeal of the coal duty.
Statistical Account
281
PARISH or KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.
(COUNTY AND SYNOD OF ARGYLL, PRESBYTERY OP
MULL.)
By the Rev. Mr. DUGAL CAMPBELL.
Name, Situation, and Extent.
☐ HE feveral parishes into which the iſland of Mull
was divided in times of Popery, were all united
at the Reformation, and called the parish of Mull. It
was then a part of the prefbytery of Lorn. About the
time of the Revolution, all that part of Mull N. of the
Tarbart or Ifthmus at Arofs was erected into a pariſh,
called the parish of Kilninian. The reſt of the iſland of
Mull continued to be one pariſh for upwards of 40 years
after this period, and was called the parish of Rofs. But
being too extenfive a charge, a new pariſh was erected,
called the parish of Torafay. What remained was in
writings called the parish of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen,
from two places of worſhip, the one in Airdmeanach,
called Kilfinichen, and the other in Rofs, called Kilvi-
ceuen.;